"id","restaurant","Review","Price","web","Writer","VisitDate"
1,"12TH AVE GRILL","The food here personifies a masculinity that's comfortable with its feminine side. So you get rustic but also sophisticated. Bold yet balanced. It can take a very long time to order ... you have to study the entire description of each dish, otherwise you could simply absorb the title of ""grilled pork chop"" and miss the part that says ""slow-baked chutney-stuffed apple."" The sides are never mere supporting acts. Consider Shinsato Farm Pork Belly Confit, served with wilted dandelion greens, a poached egg yolk and ""Maui dark rum and pineapple lacquer."" Even without knowing what pineapple lacquer is, wouldn't the sum of those parts be ridiculously awesome?","$$$","www.12thavegrill.com",,
2,"3660 ON THE RISE","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$$","www.3660.com",,
3,"678 HAWAII","The dishes here aren't much more expensive than other Korean contenders on the nearby Keeaumoku Street corridor. It stands out from the rest with its well-directed décor and constant, bustling energy. Patrons are drawn by the star power f owner Kang Ho Dong, a popular Korean comedian, as well as the Black Cold Noodle and U.S. Kobe-style beef raised without hormones or antibiotics - not to mention the late-night happy hour","$$-$$$",,,
4,"AGU A RAMEN BISTRO","This restaurant opened with a streamlined ramen menu, but chef Hisashi ""Teddy"" Uehara's ambition didn't end there. He's a perfectionist, and there were days early on when he refused to serve his tonkotsu or Jidori chicken ramen when he felt the broth - using pork or chicken bones boiled down over 18 hours - was not up to snuff. When he was satisfied with the consistency of his ramen, he moved to pupu ranging from Jidori kawa (deep-fried Jidori chicken skin); tebichi (Okinawan-style pork feet); pork cheek croquettes; and Jidori nanban, a chicken-and-egg specialty comprising tender Miyazaki-style fried chicken topped with homemade tartar sauce incorporating chunks of hard-boiled egg. Even so, ramen continues to be the star of the menu, dividing diners into two camps: those who prefer the lightness of the chicken broth, or those who enjoy the thick richness of tonkotsu broth. Both styles skew satisfyingly toward their respective extremes of lightness and heft. But, as if the basic tonkotsu wasn't rich enough, Uehara kept tweaking and adding until he ended up with (so far) the ultimate bowl of ramen, the Innovative Hot Mess, a kitchen-sink creation incorporating fresh garlic, black garlic oil, garlic butter, Parmesan cheese and more. (See my pick for favorite food, Page 40.) The downside of popularity is waiting for a table, but the search is on for a second Agu location.","$$","www.aguramen.com",,
5,"ALAN WONG'S","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$$$","www.alanwongs.com",,
6,"ALICIA'S MARKET","Leonard Kam, son of the beloved Alicia, grew up at the market - when asked how long he's been mixing poke, his reply is ""since the '70s."" His experience shows. He offers more than 50 varieties of the food stuff that made Alicia's legendary, including a long lineup of spicy poke that he developed this year. Among the most popular are spicy ahi (of course), king crab and salmon. Another new big seller is lomi oio, a combo of scraped bonefish, salmon chunks, dried shrimp, tomato and onion. Other classic items at this grocery/plate-lunch venue: Chinese-style roast pork belly with crispy skin, and new classics of smoked prime rib and brisket meats.","$","www.aliciashawaii.com",,
7,"ALLEY RESTAURANT, (THE AT AIEA BOWL)","This bustling bowling alley restaurant continues to deliver top-notch versions of local favorites, made from scratch, not to mention decadent desserts that have secured their place in the hearts of dessert fans islewide. Flavorful deep-fried pork chops, a customer favorite, strike the perfect balance of crisp crust and moist chops, while Tasty Chicken, boneless fried pieces dipped in a secret Tasty Sauce, delivers sweet-spicy-garlicky flavor and a winning crunch. Also to die for: Hamburger steak served with homemade gravy, oxtail soup served with ponzu sauce, and such beloved desserts as Lemon Crunch Cake, Pumpkin Crunch Cake, Chocolate Insanity Cake and gourmet cupcakes.","$-$$","www.aieabowl.com",,
8,"ANDY'S SANDWICHES & SMOOTHIES","Let us count the many ways we love this longtime Manoa venue, which offers much more than its name implies. Start the day with the popular ""everything"" omelette, for instance, filled with bacon, mushroom, spinach and cheese. Or if you've got a sweet tooth, partake of whole-wheat, banana or blueberry pancakes. For lunch, a classic combo of turkey, avocado, tomato and cheese is all the rage, the turkey being especially fabulous because it's roasted fresh every day. A hot turkey version served with mushrooms is also hot with customers, as well as a smoked ahi melt that's melted hearts. As far as hit smoothies go, Norma Rodrigues, wife of Andy, says ""they're all popular!"" A tease of the lineup: Strawberries n Creme, made with coconut milk; a Triple of apple juice mixed with strawberries, banana and papaya; pitaya (dragon fruit); mango and guava.","$","www.andyssandwiches.com",,
9,"ARANCINO KAHALA","After a year at the Kahala Hotel & Resort, this exquisite ""hybrid Italian"" fine-dining restaurant (so labeled by its executive chef, Daisuke Hamamoto) continues to bring fresh ideas to the plate, delivered with perfectly balanced flavors and beautiful presentations. A few highlights: tagliatelle ai frutti di mare comprising tiger shrimp, scallops and house-made tagliatelle pasta tossed in lemon, garlic, white-wine truffle oil; casarecce ragu di polpo, a dish of octopus and casarecce pasta served with spicy garlic tomato sauce; tagliatelle con orecchiette di mare with Kona abalone and house-made tagliatelle tossed in an abalone bouillon garlic cream sauce; and, to celebrate its first anniversary, a 5-ounce A5 Miyazaki wagyu steak, the highest-quality beef in Japan and rare to Hawaii. The dish is lavender-infused and prepared sous vide, then served with petite potatoes and onion petals. The extensive wine list offers 100 wines from Italy and the Pacific Rim. Also recommended: Arancino's brick-oven pizzas.","$$$$","www.arancino.com/ arancino-kahala",,
10,"ASSAGGIO","Hot, made-to-order pastas and savory meat and seafood dishes inspired by southern Italy are the draw here, consistent across all six restaurants in the chain. Neighborhood rapport adds to the allure for family gatherings, dates and parties. Choose from many pasta preparations (puttanesca, marsala, piccata, pomodori, to name a few) and proteins (veal, shrimp, chicken, clams, calamari, sausage, etc.) for mouth-watering creations such as the garlicky Chicken Olio Anchovy, bacon-laced fresh clams casino and Chicken Alla Sorrentino (layered with eggplant and mozzarella, with a mushroom marsala wine butter sauce). Start with the Caesar salad, everyone's favorite, made tableside from scratch with anchovies, egg yolks and Parmesan.","$$$","www.assaggiohawaii.com",,
11,"ASUKA NABE + SHABU SHABU","This distinctive hot-pot restaurant offers Nara-style Asuka broth, a centuries-old recipe that combines chicken broth, milk, honey and miso. It's a subtle flavor, so if you've got a yen for something more lively, consider a spicy or curry version; an umakara broth of chicken broth, chilies and honey; or a wafu broth of ahi, shoyu, mirin, konbu and sake. A new hit is the paitan spicy garlic broth. Next, what to cook? A kalbi beef and pork shabu shabu set, which comes with the standard tofu, noodles and vegetables, is popular. The Asuka Nabe set comprises a variety of meats, vegetables and seafood the Yose Nabe set ups the ante on the seafood. Or, customize your ingredients with an extensive array of vegetables and meats, including popular selections of Angus prime rib-eye and Kobe beef.","$$$","www.asukanabe.com",,
12,"AZURE","Diners at The Royal Hawaiian hotel's flagship restaurant, Azure, face a dilemma: Is it better to give one's self over to the lure of outside cabana dining, so close to the shore that the splash of waves on the beach can be heard, or to enjoy the chill sophistication of the Morocco-inspired restaurant? Once that choice is surmounted, it's all smooth sailing. Control of the kitchen has been passed to young up-and-comer Shaymus Alwin, a protege of former chef de cuisine Jon Matsubara, and Alwin has continued Azure's emphasis on contemporary technique, ultra-fresh fare and local ingredients. The menu offers temptations such as butter-poached beef from Hawaii Ranchers, and Azure's Royal Papa'aina tasting menu delivers highlight after highlight - including hamachi crudo with American caviar, duck breast served ""under smoke"" and confit abalone with pork headcheese tonkatsu.","$$$$","www.azurewaikiki.com",,
13,"BACI BISTRO","Since 1997, chef Reza Azeri has been building a fan base that continues to grow, with his Italian-inspired European cuisine served in Kailua. While longtime customers undoubtedly have their favorites - these include lobster ravioli; Gamberetti Marinati alla Griglia, an appetizer of charcoal shrimp, lime and feta cheese and Saltimbocca di Vitello, veal layers with fresh mozzarella, sage and prosciutto sauteed in white-wine sauce â€” the latest rage is truffle gnocchi, a special that keeps diners coming back for more. For a perfect ending, devotees of the bistro finish their meals with mascarpone cheesecake. Dinner seats are filled every evening, so reservations are highly recommended. Take note: On Mondays, enjoy 25 percent off virtually everything, even drinks.","$$-$$$","www.bacibistro.com",,
14,"BANZAI SUSHI BAR","This popular Haleiwa eatery, featuring ""tropical Japanese fusion sushi"" by chef Hide Takahashi, has put the spotlight on hamachi, a much beloved favorite. A new hit is a hamachi aburi roll that serves the fish seared with cucumber and avocado and topped with onion, sesame seeds, soy sauce and spicy mayo. A hamachi entree delivers the fish baked and served with fondue sauce. On the vegetable front is Spinach Gomai, blanched spinach served cold with sweet sesame dressing. Along with all these new favorites is a classic, the Maui Wowi, a riceless roll. As always, the produce here is organic and sourced from North Shore farms, and the restaurant continues to be a go-to venue for vegans and vegetarians. For those who want to relax, check out Banzai's happy hour, now 5 to 6 p.m. Mondays to Thursdays, and partake of the extensive sake selection.","$$","www.banzaisushibarÂ­hawaii.com",,
15,"BEACHHOUSE AT THE MOANA","Surf and turf partner to wonderful effect at the historic Moana Surfrider's premier restaurant. Wild blue ocean meets refined Victorian architecture, and fine steakhouse fare marries fresh seafood and island flair. If you're looking for alfresco fine dining, the Beachhouse is a prime choice. Standout dishes include Snake River Farms Black Label American Wagyu New York Strip (steak lovers know this is top grade), Australian rack of lamb, and stuffed oysters with lomi tomato and luau spinach. Customers also love the wagyu beef steak tartare, roasted bone marrow and foie gras toast with caramelized onion and blackberry jam. Take it all in while enjoying front-row views of Waikiki Beach, Diamond Head and the sunset.","$$$$","www.beachhousewaikiki.com",,
16,"BERNINI HONOLULU","Alongside praiseworthy standard fare such as Ricci di Mare sea urchin pasta, King Crab Linguine and Vongole Bianco clam pasta, Bernini now presents seasonal menus four times a year. The special menus comprise a few appetizers, a couple of pasta dishes, a pizza, a main course and a fish special. Expect these to further the restaurant's reputation for executing beautifully balanced dishes to perfection. Other favorites: Crispy roast chicken, and panna cotta with white-wine gelee and fruit.","$$$","www.berninihonolulu.com",,
17,"BEVY","Bevy is a tasteful yet wallet-conscious bastion of quality and service in Kakaako, serving as a trendsetter for the budding district. Attentive to detail and precise in its preparation and service of both food and cocktails, the bar and kitchen are one of a kind, filling a gap left by the late, lamented thirtyninehotel, from which co-owner Christian Self launched in 2013. Self is a master of craft cocktails, mixing up his own recipes and making this a citywide destination for drinks, served in a dark, urban room distinguished for its DIY and globally sourced decor. Chef Petra Lindeson joined Bevy in June 2014 and created a fresh tapas menu for the establishment, including house-marinated olives, Gambas al Ajillo (shrimp in garlic) and an irresistible Tres Quesos (manchego, pecorino romano and sharp cheddar cheeses inside a warm, flavorful puff). True to Bevy's individualistic style, Lindeson also mixes in a few refreshing Scandinavian specialties - house-made gravlax, Kšttbullar (meatballs) and lingonberry butter among them. The bar celebrated a first anniversary in September with a party featuring the tasty, free-thinking DJs who also find a home here; let's hope Bevy thrives to hold down Kakaako for many years to come.","$-$$","www.bevybar.com",,
18,"BILLS SYDNEY","Australian chef, restaurateur and author Bill Granger opened his first U.S. restaurant, bills Sydney, off the main strip of Kalakaua Avenue earlier this year. He brought with him a menu that reflects an easygoing and modern nature that fits perfectly with Hawaii's casual cuisine. The spacious, two-story restaurant showcases simple contemporary selections - ricotta hot cakes with honeycomb butter; sweet corn fritters with a bacon and avocado salsa; fish curry with butternut squash, topped with cucumber and coriander relish. A bakery selection includes organic sourdough or rye toast with a choice of several jams, or the traditional Aussie condiment - Vegemite. Locally inspired dishes include fried brown rice with crab, chorizo and kim chee; and ahi poke with avocado, cherry tomatoes and sea asparagus. If you're planning a visit, parking could be a problem. But if you can snag one of the stalls on the street, then good on ya.","$-$$","www.billshawaii.com",,
19,"BLT STEAK","This restaurant inside the Trump International Hotel Waikiki, part of the Esquared Hospitality chain, offers attractive menu choices in a clubby, urbane setting, with low tables and leather-upholstered seating. It's busy and friendly, with closely grouped tables â€” a good place to eavesdrop on the adventures of visitors seated nearby. Chef Johan Svensson, born in Sweden, worked at New York's Aquavit and the Manhattan Nobu, and his Big Apple experience influences the taste profile of BLT's appetizers and seafood dishes for the better, with a chef's ""blackboard menu"" that changes nightly. Delicious upscale ""basics"" include perfectly charred steaks in many variations, from hanger to wagyu and Snake River-raised American Kobe. BLT's popular popovers and a raw bar are also a draw.","$$$$","www.bltsteak.com",,
20,"BOGART'S CAFE","This bustling Diamond Head eatery that serves breakfast all day long, offers an extensive menu of omelets, eggs Benedicts, pancakes and waffles, bagels and more, plus lunch fare such as pasta, sandwiches and salads. But the item that trumps them all is Bogart's acai bowl of granola, fresh blueberries, strawberries, bananas and honey. Those seeking a bit more heft might consider the crab and avocado or chicken veggie omelets, or avocado spinach or corned beef Benedicts, all customer favorites. Bogart's has also introduced a rib-eye loco moco that's been making waves. For rice lovers, there is Mama's fried rice, cooked up with asparagus, corn, mushrooms, spinach and scrambled eggs. The only limit to breakfast is that waffles aren't available after 3 p.m., nor potatoes after 5. Have a strategy when you go: Call ahead (there's a separate window for phone orders), bring cash (they don't take plastic) and tag team, with one person dropping off and circling, the other picking up. Consider it a bonus if you find parking nearby and a seat in the eatery.","$$","www.bogartscafe.webs.com",,
21,"BREWED",,,,,
22,"BUDNAMUJIP","The Hawaii outpost of a 37-year-old Korean restaurant that specializes in high-quality beef, shows pride in its meat cutters, who work in full view of diners, as well as its premium wagyu beef. Wait staff will do the cooking for you on a tabletop grill, ensuring the high-quality, high-priced meats are prepared right.","$$$$",,,
23,"CAFE DUCK BUTT",,,,,
24,"CAFE KAILA","Every week, Chrissie Kaila Castillo offers an eggs Benedict special and a waffle special - think corned beef Benedict, kalua pig Benedict and crabcake Benedict and waffles in flavors of lilikoi-orange, red velvet, peaches and cream, and chocolate mousse - and her customers love them. For all that, it's the buttermilk pancakes that keep her crew hopping. They can barely keep up. Needless to say, Cafe Kaila is a bustling venue. The lunch menu is also diverse, featuring everything from rib-eye, fish and chicken plates to pasta, salads and panini. Specials include a soup of the day paired with a sandwich.","$$","www.cafe-kaila-hawaii.com",,
25,"CAFE MAHARANI","A longtime go-to for northern Indian cuisine, Cafe Maharani offers an extensive menu featuring meat, vegetarian and rice dishes, many of which are made using a blend of dozens of herbs and spices. The lineup includes tandoori, kebab, curry, vindaloo and masala preparations and a dessert lineup. Customer favorites include the Lamb Roghan Josh, lamb marinated in yogurt and cooked in a mild cream sauce; Butter Chicken, in which the bird is cooked in a fenugreek-seasoned tomato butter sauce and Palak Paneer, a chef specialty of homemade cheese cooked with spinach and spices.","$$","www.cafemaharanihawaii.com",,
26,"CASABLANCA MOROCCAN CUISINE","Much more than great food is to be had at Casablanca, where diners sit on cushions amid carpeted walls and listen to exotic music, then proceed to eat a sumptuous five-course meal - with their hands. Meals are prix fixe, with a choice of entree. Popular selections include rack of lamb, Cornish hen cooked with preserved lemons and olives, and Moroccan-style fish coated in a rub made with cilantro, cayenne, cumin, coriander, paprika, garlic, onion and olive oil. A bonus for the evening are belly dancers, who occasionally treat guests to performances.","$$$-$$$$","",,
27,"CENTRAL BAKERY",,,,,
28,"CHAMPA THAI","The Phanphengdy family has been specializing in classic Thai dishes for the past 25 years and relying on word of mouth for advertising. It's paid off, as fresh and vibrant flavors have proved rave worthy. The menu lists 91 items, including spring and summer rolls, satays (barbecue sticks), salads, soups, curries, stir-fries, noodles, fried rice, fish and meat dishes and vegetarian options. Ever the must-haves: pad thai, panang curry, papaya salad, spring rolls.","$","www.champathai.com",,
29,"CHART HOUSE WAIKIKI","Stepping into Chart House Waikiki is a bit like traveling back in time. The pace is a little more relaxed in this little corner of Waikiki, where you can snack on pupu while enjoying the sunset over Ala Wai Boat Harbor and nearby Ala Moana Park. Get a little more fancy and settle in with some top-drawer A5 Miyazaki or Tajima New York Strip BMS Wagyu steak, Alaskan red king crab or live Maine lobster, or the Whole Fish Delight - one side is sliced up into sashimi, with the rest deep-fried. And we'd be remiss if we didn't mention the world-famous Guy Tai, the upscale mai tai created by longtime bartender Guy Maynard. After more than 35 years behind the bar, you can still find him at the Chart House mixing them up for customers and sending tourists away happy with take-home souvenir glasses.","$$-$$$","www.charthousewaikiki.com",,
30,"CHEF CHAI","Chef Chai Chaowasaree proves that delicious, vibrant, satisfying fare can also be healthful via the cuisine at his Chef Chai restaurant. Believe it or not, butter is nonexistent here, and fat and sodium are kept under control while vegetables and flavor abound. There are many heart-healthy options, and a sizable lineup of gluten-free dishes. Make no mistake, every diner can find something appealing. Fresh Ahi Tartare in Mini Waffle Cones may be a surprising appetizer, for instance, but there's also a familiar seafood tortellini with lobster sauce. The entree menu alone features amazing variety, from a vegetable stir-fry with tofu and cashews, to scallop pot pie with lobster reduction and grilled Mongolian lamb chops with mashed potatoes and brandy demi-glace. There's also an early-bird four-course dinner for $40 and late-night pupu.","$$$","www.chefchai.com",,
31,"CHEF MAVRO RESTAURANT","True artistry is at work at Chef Mavro, where owner-chef George Mavrothalassitis is passionate about creating new dishes for his seasonal menus. This menu is offered alongside a Hana Hou menu comprising some of the chef's most requested past dishes. These are rotated as well since over the years, Mavrothalassitis has created many favorites. Among the new offerings: Maine diver scallops crusted with very thin slices of slab bacon, sauteed until the bacon is crisp. It's served with chanterelle mushrooms and warabi in a velvety mushroom veloute. Then there's a dessert of poached fig in spiced Burgundy accompanied by a tapioca dumpling filled with toasted pistachio-fig marmalade and a side of pistachio ice cream. As for the Hana Hou menu, there's the chef's signature onaga baked in a salt crust. Mavrothalassitis calculated he's made this dish more than 80,000 times, yet diners still can't get enough. The four-course Hana Hou and seven-course seasonal menus are flexible; diners can move dishes from one menu to the other. Each comes with optional wine pairings. No matter what menu or items your party selects, Chef Mavro will surely surprise and delight everyone at the table.","$$$$"," www.chefmavro.com",,
32,"CHEZ KENZO","Think you don't care for uni or natto, two ""difficult"" foods that straddle the line between pungent and pleasant? Chez Kenzo may change your mind. Within the understated exterior of this casual bar is an impressive and creative menu of local and JapaÂ­nese tapas, and both Italian- and Asian-inspired pastas. The natto is made more palatable when folded into a fluffy, creamy egg-and-cheese omelet, while uni is stirred into a light pasta offering. Beyond these specialties, the 100-plus menu items offer much to love, from lunchtime loco mocos, ahi katsu and poke bowls, to such evening crowd pleasers as pumpkin and bacon sauteed with garlic, Nagoya-style chicken wings, filet mignon with wasabi and mayo-mentaiko pasta, all meant to be shared with friends. Happy hour from 5 to 7 p.m. daily promises comparable fare along with drink specials.","$$","www.chezkenzo.net",,
33,"CHOI'S GARDEN","A modest hideaway, placed behind its small parking lot in the blocks behind the Keeaumoku Street Walmart. Any skepticism engendered by the setting will be swept away, however, with the arrival of the fresh, inventive banchan, which makes use of seasonal ingredients and unusual (for Honolulu) items such as chestnut jelly and raw crab. Sets of meat for the grill are served in generous portions, with options including all beef items, tripe and pork belly. And the service is knowledgeable and prompt. A pleasure all 'round.","$$-$$$",,,
34,"CINNAMON'S RESTAURANT","Though regulars to this Kailua fixture appreciate the old-school lunches of baked spaghetti, Mandarin Orange Salad and Cashew Chicken Salad Sandwich, it's the breakfast fare that put Cinnamon's on the map. Perennial favorites, served all day, continue to be red velvet and guava chiffon pancakes, and a memorable version of kalua pig eggs Benedict. Other items to try: Portuguese sweet bread French toast and crabcake eggs Benedict. A second Cinnamon's just opened in the Ilikai Hotel with a limited menu. A full opening is set for November.","$$","www. cinnamons808.com",,
35,"COUNTER, THE","As if customers didn't have choices before, The Counter has increased all the ways they can have a burger - or sandwich, or salad, or bowl. Every category of options has been expanded, from cheeses (add to the list fresh mozzarella and manchego, to name just two) to sauces (sweet Sriracha is among the most popular) to toppings (think jicama and smoked jalapeno) to buns and protein (pretzel and ciabatta, and ahi, respectively). To the options for burgers in a bowl, add selections of kale and quinoa. There are also a couple more salad choices, new specialty burgers and shakes. There are even options for vegans, vegetarians and those who can't have gluten. But one thing has been standardized: All beef burgers are grass-fed Big Island beef.","$-$$","www.thecounterburger.com/honolulu",,
36,"CREAM POT","Though menu classics - such as baked eggs and Off-the-Wall Eggs Benedict, a sweet and savory dish of French bread with creme anglaise base, bacon, poached egg and salted caramel drizzle - continue to captivate customers, this French-Japanese breakfast stop never rests on its laurels. Joining its decadent lineup of eggs Benedicts is a new combo of applewood smoked bacon on French bread topped with avocado, pineapple and the shop's Morning Sauce, all served with the soup of the day. Monte cristo fans, meanwhile, can enjoy Cream Pot's interpretation, a triple-decker sandwich served on French toast with Gruyere, creme anglaise, serrano ham and pear, topped with maple syrup, seasonal preserves and sprinkled with powdered sugar. Also recommended: Strawberry Cheesecake Stuffed French Toast.","$$","",,
37,"D.K STEAK HOUSE","D.K. Kodama, the man behind Sansei Seafood Restaurant & Sushi Bar, knows his fish, but he also knows a good steak. The steaks here are dry-aged in-house, a process that results in tender and juicy cuts with more concentrated flavor and character. Go big with the restaurant's signature 22-ounce, bone-in rib-eye, its ""premier steak,"" dry-aged for 30 days. So tender and flavorful, it has everyone raving. Also recommended: the New York strip, wagyu Bresaola Carpaccio (with lemon aioli and local baby arugula, asparagus, cherry tomatoes and Thai basil), Asparagus Milanese (Waialua spears topped with a local egg, Italian bread crumbs and truffle oil), paniolo dry rub (can be added to any steak), sauteed Maui onions (Mom Kodama's recipe), Chocolate-Chocolate Decadence Cake and Delmonico Mudd Pie.","$$$$","www.dksteakhouse.com",,
38,"DA HUB",,,,,
39,"DA SPOT","Think of Da Spot, and the first word that comes to mind is ""flavor."" Indeed, flavor is manifested in everything from longtime favorites Moroccan roasted chicken, Egyptian lamb and Egyptian baked chicken; 20 different salads; 10 to 11 sandwich options and daily specials such as tomato-herb roasted lamb shank and garlic lemon butter red snapper. The eatery also delivers 36 vegan smoothies made from fresh local produce, in such flavors as lilikoi, lychee, coconut and acai. If you can't make it out to Moiliili, find Da Spot at farmers markets at Blaisdell Center (Wednesday), Kapiolani Community College (Saturday morning, Tuesday) and Kailua (Thursday) in a kiosk at the University of Hawaii sustainability courtyard the UH-West Oahu campus and Fort Shafter. Recommended: fresh-baked baklava and Malaysian curries.","$","",,
40,"DAGON","If you want an idea of what Burmese cuisine is like before heading to this restaurant, start by pulling out a map. Burma is bordered by India, Laos, Thailand and China, and the influences are all on the menu, from stir-fries to coconut and masala curries. That's quite a broad spectrum, and the amalgamation makes Burmese cuisine quite unique. Now you can sample the cuisine without packing your bags. Highlights here include the fish-noodle soup mohinga that is thickened with rice powder, a comfort dish on par with Chinese jook a coconut-chicken noodle soup and a well-textured green tea salad of lettuce, crunchy peanuts, toasted sesame seeds, green and yellow split peas, fried garlic, tomatoes and sunflower seeds, topped with fermented tea leaves.","$$","",,
41,"DEAN'S DRIVE INN","This bright Kaneohe spot continues to charm customers with its ever cheery decor and variety of tasty dishes. In fact, chef-owner Dean Mishima offers a menu for meat eaters and vegetarians alike. Favorites here include a new surf-and-turf combo of the eatery's best-selling items - ahi cakes and teri beef - and a daily local catch Â­cooked in Dean's classic ginger-soy sauce. Regulars also check in for baked goods by Doreen's (Dean's wife) especially the butter mochi with haupia, shortbread cookie topped with a brownie and shortbread with azuki. Also find Dean's food at sweet shop Sodakinegrindz, his latest venture, also in Kaneohe (45-726 Kamehameha Highway, 235-3500).","$-$$","",,
42,"DIAMOND HEAD MARKET & GRILL","It's not necessarily about the favorites at this gourmet market/deli/bakery/fast-food grill, though folks do love Diamond Head Market's portobello mushroom dishes, blueberry-cream cheese scones and Lemon Crunch Cake. Rather, the venue's broad customer base responds to the consistently high quality of whatever chef/owner Kelvin Ro and his crew put out. That means everything from meat dishes and sandwiches featuring meats roasted in-house, dressings and sauces, and fresh daily greens and wraps. The goal of the market is to put out as much variety as possible, because regulars know that even if their favorites are sold out, they can select something else with confidence - and they do. Tip: Call ahead as early as possible for takeout orders.","$-$$","www.diamondheadmarket.com",,
43,"DO-NE",,,,,
44,"DORAKU KAKAAKO","A convenient location near Blaisdell Arena, trendy atmosphere and approachable menu make Doraku Kakaako a fun pick for date night or a high-energy option for families or larger groups (just be sure to call ahead for reservations). Early and late happy hours are available for more budget-conscious diners. As is the case with Doraku's Waikiki location, the sushi always satisfies. Traditional nigiri, sashimi and donburi are consistently executed with quality ingredients, while the extensive list of specialty rolls allows the more adventurous to explore various flavor combinations. Give the White Dragon, Spicy Lobster, Geisha and Coral Reef rolls a try, but be sure to leave room for a side order of tempura - the lobster and firecracker shrimp versions are the best. Not a big seafood fan? Doraku offers plenty of other options, like ume shiso chicken, Japanese-style garlic steak, agedashi tofu and grilled king oyster mushrooms.","$$","www.dorakusushi.com",,
45,"DOWNBEAT DINER & LOUNGE","Enjoy the retro diner experience here, with its delicious selection of milkshakes and burgers, enhanced by vinyl booths and even a jukebox. But one look at the menu, and it's obvious this restaurant offers so much more. There are vegetarian and vegan options for every item on the menu, which includes fajita wraps, salads and breakfast burritos. Even the shakes can be delivered vegan, with soy ice cream and soy milk. Customer favorites: Oreo cookie, chai and Chunky Monkey shakes chicken; fajita wraps; and a breakfast burrito of egg, cheese, salsa, homefries and meat.","$","www.downbeatdiner.com",,
46,"EARL'S SANDWICH",,,,,
47,"EL RANCHO",,,,,
48,"ELENA'S RESTAURANT","It's all about the Filipino classics at this Waipahu eatery run by second-generation owner Mellissa Cedillo, but there are definitely certain dishes folks return for again and again: pork adobo fried rice omelette and the lechon special, a dish of roasted pork with tomatoes and onions, are among top selections. To accommodate hungry customers and ride the wave of popularity, Elena's now offers the Triple D, a combo plate of the fried-rice omelette and the lechon special. Other favorites at this family restaurant, named after Elena Butuyan, who opened the place with her husband, Theo, in 1974, are both beef and banana lumpia, sari sari, gisantes and squid guisado. If a trek to Waipahu isn't in the works, catch Elena's food truck on the last Friday of each month at Eat the Street at 555 South St.","$-$$","www.elenasrestaurant.com",,
49,"ETHIOPIAN LOVE",,,,,
50,"FENDU BOULANGERIE","True to its name - ""fendu"" refers to the split-loaf shape of French bread and ""boulangerie"" is a bakery that specializes in bread - chef/owner Niel Koep makes everything in-house, from bread and pizza dough to an array of pastries such as the pear almond tart and a cheesecake that woo customers back again and again. A savory favorite is Fendu's pot pie, a unique and harmonious mix of chicken, green papaya, Okinawan sweet potato and carrots. Koep's eggplant lasagna is also a perennial hit.","$","",,
51,"FOOK YUEN SEAFOOD RESTAURANT","As with most Chinese restaurants, Fook Yuen serves a wide selection of dishes. Find appetizers, soups, seafood, sizzling platters, house specials, hot-pot courses, chicken, beef, pork, vegetables, rice and noodles, and desserts. But because it's a seafood restaurant, those dishes are a particular source of pride. Among favorites are Dungeness crab and lobster cooked to order, honey walnut prawns and steamed fish. Satisfy a craving for seafood or Chinese virtually anytime, as the venue is open until 3 a.m. daily.","$-$$","",,
52,"FRESH CATCH","Chef/owner Reno Henriques hits all the marks for the local palate, with poke made with fresh isle fish, smoked meat and seafood dishes, plus new favorites such as pastele stew and smoked-meat fried rice. Fresh Catch has two locations, in Kaimuki and Kaneohe, as well as a food truck stationed in Campbell Industrial Park on the leeward side (91-165 Kalaleloa Blvd., in the same yard as RRR Recycling, 682-7653, 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. weekdays). Recommended: garlic chicken, ahi katsu, smoked meat and onions, pastele stew over french fries.","$","www.freshcatch808.com",,
53,"FUTAGO",,,,,
54,"GINA'S BAR-B-Q","This Korean-style takeout restaurant offers hefty portions of all the classics Hawaii folks have come to love, from barbecue meats and cold noodles to hot soups and stews. Most plates come with three scoops of rice as well as four banchan selections. Favorites: Every combo (if there isn't one to suit your fancy, customize), barbecue chicken and spicy pork.","$","www.ginasbbq.com",,
55,"GOLDEN DUCK","There can never be enough good Chinese places in Hawaii, and Moiliili is the lucky home of this one. Customers love Golden Duck's Peking duck, shrimp Canton, honey-glazed walnut shrimp, cold ginger chicken and salt-and-pepper pork chops. The crew also prides itself on the boneless minute chicken, cake noodles and duck noodles. Take note: The longtime Kahala location is now closed.","$","",,
56,"GREEK MARINA","If you're in need of winding down, you couldn't do much better than this venue, situated right on the marina. Whether dining outdoors or inside the restaurant, you'll appreciate the authentic Greek fare, which includes the always popular Greek lasagna, beef souvlakis, gyros, moussaka (layered eggplant and ground meat seasoned with spices and topped with a bechamel sauce) and lamb shank. Weekend specials include baked chicken, a customer favorite.","$$-$$$","www.greekrestauranthawaii.com",,
57,"GREENS & VINES","Raw food diners are making the most of chef Sylvia Thompson's restaurant, where she proves daily how delicious raw, vegan cuisine can be. Complete with a wine list, the menu touts classics from her 'Licious Dishes days, including the Not Tuna Salad of organic sunflower seeds and macadamia nuts, organic Medjool dates, onions, coconut water, celery and scallions and the Living Lasagna, a dish of zucchini fettuccine with cashew Alfredo sauce and marinated mushrooms. Thompson's also added specials customer favorites include gnocchi with white truffle sauce and sun-dried tomatoes (the gnocchi is made from zucchini), and a green papaya salad with fresh coconut meat and kaffir dressing. Newly introduced is a happy hour featuring wines on the menu.","$$","www.greensandvines.com",,
58,"GRONDIN FRENCH LATIN KITCHEN","A little bit of New York City moved into downtown Honolulu with the opening of Grondin, the creation of alumni of Zakary Pelaccio's Fatty Crew family of Malaysian-inspired Fatty Crab and Fatty ÔCue restaurants. This time, the project is more personal for Jenny Grondin and David Segarra, who drew on their respective French and Ecuadorean heritage to create a restaurant well-suited to multicultural, 21st-century Honolulu. Here, craft and authenticity take supremacy over glitz and showmanship. The restaurant opened with a tapas-style dinner menu by chef Andrew Pressler, featuring the likes of Kauai shrimp ceviche with the heat of serrano peppers, and marinated octopus tossed with onion, olives, roasted red pepper and chilies. They put out a killer charcuterie platter laden with house-made pates, sausage and house-cured jamon and hearty entrees ranging from steak frites to a French cassoulet. They also won raves for their Shinsato Farm pork chuleta and tender pan-roasted Jidori chicken. Lunch quickly followed, with that charcuterie now served on ciabatta. Other sandwiches are built around such ingredients as adobo steak, chicken sofrito, and poached prawns with lemon aioli. And don't forget the adult version of grilled cheese, a Croque Madame of ham, Gruyere and sunnyside-up fried egg on toast. A beautiful full bar features such signature cocktails as the chili-infused Smoking Maguey and Chanchito, made with Pacifico, a Mexican-style pilsner, with a shot of tequila and sangrita.","$$","www.grondinhi.com",,
59,"GULICK DELICATESSEN","This longtime okazuya keeps customers coming back for more with staples of Spam and nori musubi, corned beef hash patties, nishime, chow fun and chow mein, and shrimp and sweet potato tempura. But these are just the tip of the iceberg of Gulick's extensive menu, which includes quite a variety of musubi. Favorites include garlic chicken, gobo and nishime. Find this gem at two locations, in Kalihi and Moiliili.","$","",,
60,"GYU-KAKU","There's no denying the allure of yakiniku, where a hot grill delivers satisfying food. This Japan-based yakiniku chain, which has three locations in Hawaii - in Waikiki, on Kapiolani Boulevard and in Windward Mall - is franchised, which means some restaurants offer an extended menu beyond winning standards such as Kobe rib-eye, harami skirt steak, kalbi, and chicken and vegetables. Windward Mall, which caters less to tourists and more to local families, for instance, grew its menu substantially to include smoked pork belly, Australian wagyu steak, Japanese pork and appetizers such as Brussell fries and pork tacos. No matter which Gyu-Kaku you visit, however, enjoy such classic desserts as Yakimochi Ice Cream featuring grilled mochi pieces, and the traditional s'mores treat of graham cracker, toasted marshmallow and chocolate.","$$","www.gyu-kaku.com",,
61,"HALE VIETNAM","Since 1986, Hale Vietnam has been serving up Vietnamese cuisine that's flavorful, fresh - and timeless - in a relaxed, pretty space filled with light. The restaurant's winning menu includes its signature Vietnamese fondue, a shabu-shabu-style dish featuring shrimp, calamari and beef. Also offered are entrees classic lemon grass chicken continues to be a favorite, along with Hale Vietnam's selection of pho. But hands down, the top customer pick here is the Imperial Rolls - deep-fried, golden and crispy, filled with ground pork, carrots, yams and onions, accompanied by a fish dipping sauce. A vegetarian version is available in fact, Hale Vietnam's menu has many options for those who forgo meat, so there's something for virtually everyone.","$$","",,
62,"HALEIWA JOE'S Seafood Grill","Haleiwa Joe's hasn't changed much, because why change a good thing? There are two locations. The original on the North Shore, Haleiwa Joe's Seafood Grill, is a prime spot to treat yourself to great food, drinks and a seaside view. The fresh fish is a must, including the whole fried Thai snapper, fish tacos or fresh ahi poke. Or go for turf-based choices such as a massive prime rib or kalbi short ribs. But if you're up for a great, affordable Sunday brunch, Haleiwa Joe's at Haiku Gardens offers an all-you-can-eat experience with a beautiful view of the Koolau mountain range.","$$-$$$","www.haleiwajoes.com",,
63,"HANK'S HAUTE DOGS","Hot dogs can be practical convenience food, fast to prep and the ultimate eat-and-go. But Hank Adaniya has made hot dogs inventive, interesting, flavorful dishes that combine a variety of meats with unique toppings. Buffalo, wild boar, Kobe, chicken, chorizo and andouille dogs are regulars. The Bratwurst Francois, a Saturday special alongside the Lobster Dog, is topped with truffle mustard, mushrooms and Swiss cheese. The Hawaiian Dog, meanwhile, is a Portuguese sausage topped with mango mustard and pineapple relish. Hank's also offers a classic Chicago dog. And even if you're not in the mood for a hot dog, Hank's also delivers a satisfying hamburger. Then there's the decadent Truffle Mac n Cheese, sinful Truffle Cheese Fries, Beef Fat Fries and even an awesome creme brulee. Wash it all down with hibiscus lemonade.","$","www.hankshautedogs.com",,
64,"HASR BISTRO","There always seems to be a party going on at HASR Bistro, reflecting owner Terry Kakazu's passion for wine, food, music and fun. Executive chef Rodney Uyehara makes the fetes, fundraisers, wine dinners and some of Kakazu's wackiest ideas possible, while reliably putting lunch and dinner on the table for downtown traditionalists. Lunch dishes are on the heavy side and more typical of dinner menus, such as Wisconsin veal osso buco and sublime cioppino. It's more doable if you consider noshing on soup, salad and shareable small plates of ahi tartare, snappy shrimp spring rolls or the chef's signature roasted eggplant and ricotta souffle. An afternoon tapas menu puts some of Uyehara's greatest hits on the table, such as Mongolian baby back ribs, spiced ahi nachos and crab-stuffed salmon. This restaurant is not for dieters. You'll find the dinner menu laden with extravagant entrees such as a cassoulet of veal, duck confit, andouille and navy beans and a seafood roast that doesn't skimp on shellfish, in a delicious chili, saffron and tomato cream broth. Ever attuned to customers' desires, HASR added a Saturday brunch in September.","$$$","www.hasrbistro.com",,
65,"HAU TREE LANAI","This restaurant is literally a lanai under the hau trees at The New Otani Kaimana Beach Hotel, where customers enjoy beachfront alfresco dining. Hau Tree Lanai serves breakfast, lunch and dinner, and regulars have favorites for each meal. The venue's signature eggs Benedict starts the day, and the Spinach Salmon Steak is a go-to during both lunch and dinner. In fact, during dinner it's all about seafood, including a variety of fresh fish preparations and seafood specialities. The latest: In response to requests for a fresh breakfast option, the restaurant has added an acai bowl to its lineup.i","$$-$$$$","www.kaimana.com/hautreelanai.htm.",,
66,"HAWAII POT",,,,,
67,"HAWAII'S BEST KITCHENS",,,,,
68,"HE'EIA KEA PIER GENERAL STORE & DELI","It's been two years since the Kaneohe landmark refocused its efforts on creating delicious, affordable comfort food to go with the priceless views of Kaneohe Bay and the Koolau Mountains, and it looks like the culinary team of Garrett Kaneshiro and Shane Watanabe have things dialed in well. The streamlined lunch menu (with dinner served Fridays and Saturdays) is all killer, no filler. It's always a dilemma whether to order mainstays like the guava chicken, luau stew, Dynamite Chicken and the Pier's signature quarter-pound hamburger made with Big Island beef, or go for one of the daily specials. So we order the entire menu and eat leftovers the next two days.","$","www.heeiapier.com",,
69,"HELENA'S HAWAIIAN FOOD","Here's one eatery in which same-old, same-old means two thumbs up for customers. This James Beard award-winning restaurant, profiled on many food shows yet always unpretentious, has served top-notch Hawaiian cuisine since 1946, when founder Helen Chock opened its doors. Popular items continue to be pipikaula-style short ribs, a dish that made Helena's famous, and butterfish collars both fried and boiled. Other customer favorites: imu kalua pig, squid luau, chicken long rice, beef stew, fried ahi, lomi salmon and haupia. Ono!","$-$$","www.helenashawaiianfood.com",,
70,"HIGHWAY INN","This institution of Hawaiian food, established in 1947 by Seiichi and Sachiko ""Nancy"" Toguchi and in its third generation, now has two locations - the longtime Waipahu site and a new Kakaako restaurant. The menus are different, overlapping with the Hawaiian classics. Waipahu serves more old-fashioned dishes, such as salt meat watercress and cutlet plates, and Kakaako skews modern with new items such as the Smokin' Moco (using smoked meat), kim chee fried rice and kalua pig nachos. It also offers salads, baked goods, beer and wine, and many new breakfast items, including omelets, kalua pig eggs Benedict, waffles, a poi breakfast bowl, sweet-bread French toast and poi pancakes. Whew! That's a lot of ono to try. Of course, at either location, you can't go wrong with the classics. Be sure to try the lau lau, kalua pig, pipikaula, squid luau, haupia and beef stew. Broke da mout'.","$-$$","www.myhighwayinn.com",,
71,"HIMALAYAN KITCHEN","Exotic flavors from Nepal and India have tantalized our taste buds for six years at Suman Basnet's warmly decorated Kaimuki roost. There's an astounding variety of curries, tandoor-cooked breads and meats, biryanis, Nepali classics, sweet-sour-spicy Kathmandu specialties, vegetarian fare and more. Among the more interesting appetizers are momo (steamed dumplings from Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan, sort of like mandoo) and the Everest Choeela (a flavor burst of chicken tikka, chilies, onions and lemon juice in a papadum shell). Crowd favorites include the chicken tikka madras, lamb biryani, tandoor mixed grill (seekh kebab, chicken tikka, lamb sekuwa, shrimp) and Kathmandu chicken chili. New: More fresh fish specials and vegetarian and vegan dishes. Basnet gets fish (monchong, opah, etc.) from the docks each morning and produce from local vendors, using less oil and cooking to order upon request. Veggie madras, ginger-garlic okra saute and mixed vegetable curry are some of the hits.","$$-$$$","www.himalayankitchen.us",,
73,"HOKU'S","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$$$","www.kahalaresort.com",,
74,"HOME BAR & GRILL","Some of Honolulu's most talented up-and-coming chefs aren't toiling away in restaurants - they're earning their stripes in the kitchens of liquor-serving establishments like Home Bar & Grill, serving up quality cuisine on par with more formal dining rooms around town. Located on the mauka end of Kalakaua Avenue outside the main Waikiki strip of overpriced dining options, Home is a great place to host guests from out of town or just kick back after a long day at work. It's also a popular destination for sports fans on game day, no matter the season. Tater tots are elevated to awesomeness when served as ""nachos"" with all the fixings, as are Neil's Parmesan Truffle Fries when you taste them with crispy pepperoni chips and slathered in garlic anchovy aioli. Burgers and steaks are cooked to perfection, and Big John's Spicy Kim Chee Fried Rice is perfect when you're craving breakfast for dinner. Foodies should follow Home Bar on Instagram, where followers are regularly tipped off to amazing specials like a country-style fried pork chop with bacon gravy and maple syrup gastrique, ahi tiradito, red wine-braised beef short ribs or papio carpaccio.","$$","www.instagram.com/homebarngrill.",,
75,"HONOLULU MUSEUM OF ART CAFE","It's hard to top a dining experience amid towering works of art and cascading water in a cool pavilion, especially when chef Mike Nevin is at the helm. For years, Nevin and crew have dished up artfully delicious sandwiches, salads and pasta dishes at the Honolulu Museum of Art Cafe, a perfect setting for a business lunch or a casual get-together. Beloved dishes include the smoky white bean salad served with arugula, radicchio, shiitake and Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese with red-wine vinaigrette the filet mignon sandwich dressed with Dijon caper relish a piadina (Italian flatbread) sandwich stacked with prosciutto, mozzarella, arugula, roasted garlic and pesto and weekly pasta specials. Often, the most popular dishes are the specials, which may include a grass-fed beef burger, a duck salad or a chicken Parmesan sandwich. Wine fans can peruse an updated wine menu as well.","$$","www.honolulumuseum.org",,
76,"HULA DOG",,,,,
77,"HY'S STEAK HOUSE","Servers in tuxedoes bring Old World elegance to your table at Hy's, tossing salads and flaming desserts tableside. Dinner is a show as much as a meal at this restaurant that treats the experience of eating out as a true special occasion. The atmosphere plays into it all - dark wood and restrained decor that brings to mind an exclusive club for, perhaps, English gentlemen. Steaks, of course, rule here, kiawe-grilled in every cut imaginable, some portioned for two, all succulent. But alternative proteins comprise some of Hy's favorite dishes: rack of lamb, chicken marsala- or piccata-style, lobster tail or king crab legs, shrimp risotto and Fruits de Mer. Dessert is a grand finale: When was the last time you had a flambe? Have you ever had a flambe? Everyone should, once. Choose bananas Foster, cherries jubilee or the house special, Sinatra's Strawberry Flambe (fruit, vanilla ice cream and mint).","$$$-$$$$","www.hyswaikiki.com",,
78,"IMANAS TEI","Small plates with big flavors and bursts of freshness are the order of the evening at this acclaimed izakaya from Keisuke Asai. Dishes come raw, grilled, broiled, fried and steamed, all suited to accompaniments of cold beer and warm sake. This place is always bustling, so make a reservation or gear up your patience to wait. Favorites include the miso katsu, Chanko Nabe Hot Pot, shabu shabu, Seafood Dynamite, sushi and sashimi.","$$$","",,
79,"REAL A GASTROPUB","REAL's younger sibling, BREW'd, has gotten more attention from Honolulu's beer-drinking community in recent months, but those unwilling to make the trip to Kaimuki can rest assured that REAL remains a beacon of greatness amid the hustle and bustle of Ward Centers. And along with all the great brews, chef Troy Terorotua continues to dazzle with small plates that showcase his passion for food and ability to pair the flavors of his creations with the beer he has available on tap. Portions and prices are manageable enough to order multiple items. Start with garlic candied bacon, Buffalo-fried deviled eggs or bacon fat fries with house-made ketchup before moving on to the Duck Confit ""Corn Dog,"" beer-braised brisket poutine or chicken and waffles. REAL's sandwich game is on point, too, with a variety of sliders (char siu pork, miso-marinated fish, ""Portobeero"" mushroom) and a Blue Balls Hoagie made with blue cheese-stuffed meatballs. Be sure to save some room for a Guinness Float (made with beer!), s'mores cheesecake or an Irish Car Bomb (cookie, Guinness gelato, Jameson's caramel and Bailey's anglaise). A huge selection of craft beers offers the perfect complement to the food - or just drink your dinner.","$","www.realgastropub.com",,
80,"IRIFUNE","Irifune is a Kapahulu neighborhood institution, ensconced in a cramped space next to a barbershop where it has enjoyed a loyal clientele since the mid-'70s, becoming all the more funky as each decade goes by. No other restaurant in Honolulu is quite as eccentric in decor, and casual diners who BYOB and return again and again wouldn't have it any other way. Hungry patrons queue up for tables, enduring the stuffy anteroom or sitting at the bus stop outside as they anticipate Irifune's fresh ahi plates, panko-battered tofu and just-right rice, all served at a reasonable price. Irifune is celebrated for its garlic ahi, but if that's too deeply flavored for your taste, the primo sashimi is also a treat. Also recommended: tempura and Irifune's supersized spicy ahi sushi rolls.","$-$$","",,
81,"IZAKAYA GAZEN","At this casually stylish, Japanese-owned restaurant, popular with neighborhood residents and Japanese visitors alike, you can choose dishes designed to help the beer or sake flow, or more elegant plates. Both have their charms, but it helps to choose carefully. A must-try: the Tofu Sampler, served three ways with tofu made daily and served attractively, with homemade Zaru tofu in a straw bowl flanked by Sukui tofu bathed in silky soy broth and a black sesame tofu - all delicate and consummately refreshing. Also recommended: aku carpaccio with yuzu, onions, sesame and drizzled with oil, a luscious Gazen variation on poke.","$-$$","",,
82,"IZAKAYA NONBEI","This traditional izakaya offers an extensive array of tapas-style plates, filled with everything from the expected agedashi tofu and chicken karaage (dipped in a homemade ponzu sauce) to shoyu pork belly, sauteed mushrooms and eggplant, and crab avocado salad with light yuzu dressing. Izakaya Nonbei offers ultra-fresh sashimi, sushi and oysters as well. Devotees return for the signature frozen sake slush. The latest and greatest on the menu, however, are the wagyu offerings: a nigiri of seared wagyu seasoned simply with Hawaiian salt, and an A5 - premium - wagyu steak from Japan, served on a sizzling platter with a side of garlic and onions.","$$$","",,
83,"IZAKAYA TORAE TORAE","As the world becomes more casual and less traditional, younger diners are embracing izakaya-style dining. The format is attune to their search for camaraderie, boosted by the steady flow of drinks and shared plates. Beyond the average bar with simple pupu, the contemporary izakaya can offer an amazing culinary experience, and at Torae Torae, chef Hide Yoshimoto does his best to keep guests guessing about what he'll put on the plate next. Sushi and seafood provide the foundation for the menu, so you may find yourself first gulping down a seafood shooter that is the equivalent of a nigiri mix in liquid form, with a small dice of oyster, scallop and shrimp, ikura pearls and a dollop of uni suspended in ponzu sesame sauce. Ahi tataki is one of his signatures, dressed up with sweet onion, wakame, kaiware sprouts and the crunch of garlic chips, flavored with ponzu and finished with zigzags of garlic mayo. The silky egg custard chawanmushi is divine with its briny mix of shredded snow crabmeat, shrimp, uni and ikura, and you can never go wrong with hamachi carpaccio with the bite of jalapeno, sweet miso, ponzu and a hint of truffle oil. It's not all about seafood. Grill specialties include thin-sliced roast pork, savory pork belly kakuni that is one of the stars of the menu, rib-eye steak served with your choice of teriyaki or sizzling garlic sauce, and yukari or curry Jidori chicken. If you're the sort who can't make a decision, there are $35 and $60 omakase meals encompassing appetizer to dessert. The setting is warm, cozy and intimate, so you'll be sitting in close proximity to fellow diners, the better to enjoy their meal vicariously on sight. The sushi bar overlooks an open kitchen where you can see Yoshimoto and his team at work creating your bliss.","$$","www.toraetorae.com",,
84,"J.J. DOLAN'S","""An Irish pub with New York pizza from two guys in Chinatown,"" says J.J. Dolan's website. That seems a winning combination with pizza lovers, so much so that the thin-crust pies are often called the best on the island. Some long-standing favorites are the Pizza Margherita, shredded fresh mozzarella topped with tomatoes and basil, and The Giacomo, loaded with sausage, pepperoni, salami and olives. Some aren't necessarily reminiscent of the Big Apple (Shrimp scampi? Crawfish?), but they keep diners happy. A new addition, however, is. The Boardwalk Pie is a hearty mix of Italian sausage, roasted red peppers, onions and garlic.","$$","www.jjdolans.com",,
85,"JADE DYNASTY SEAFOOD RESTAURANT","This Chinese restaurant, the grand dame of Ala Moana Center's Ho'okipa Terrace, is notable for its ambience as well as its top-notch food, with a clean, wide-open layout, modern decor and stately private rooms. Here, get the freshest possible dim sum, made to order. The more than 65 dim sum items include vegetarian options. On the regular menu are monthly specials, such as the lauded tiger shrimp in shell, sauteed with tea leaves and served with a special soy sauce. Customer favorites include Jade Dynasty's Signature Roasted Crispy Beef Tenderloin, given a quick fry for a crisp exterior and then steamed for tenderness inside. For dessert, homemade mango pudding is always a hit.","$-$$$","www.jadedynastyhawaii.com",,
86,"JAPENGO","Esteemed Hawaii chef Jon Matsubara took over the kitchen at Japengo in September 2013, but the menu has not changed substantially. Pulehu rib-eye steak, scallop butter yaki (an appetizer of jumbo scallops topped with creamy chili sauce and black tobiko) and Singaporean chili crab (king crab tossed in a sweet chili sauce, stacked high and sliced lengthwise to facilitate easy tasting) continue to be popular staples, along with the fresh seafood, produce from local farms, Hawaii Ranchers beef and Shinsato pork. The beef here is standout, and the fresh sushi and sashimi, prepared to exacting standards, are a highlight. Keep an eye out for a continuing evolution at Japengo, and watch for special tasting menus to highlight Matsubara's inspirations.","$$$","www.waikiki.hyatt.com",,
87,"JAWAIIAN IRIE JERK","This is THE place for jerk dishes, located in Kaimuki in the space below Himalayan Kitchen. There's jerk shrimp, chicken, pork and beef, and the eatery's latest craze, a Jamaican goat curry. Jawaiian Irie offers specials every day, including two appetizers and a main course, and special requests are taken as well. Some favorites off the specials rotation are crabcakes with Jamaican country gravy and tostones (shredded, fried green plantains) and vegetable lasagna. Other favorites: oxtail stew, wings and ribs. Go on weekend nights to enjoy live steel-drum music.","$$","",,
88,"JIMBO RESTAURANT","House-made udon and broth said to rival the best in Japan - these are at the core of Jimbo's longtime success. Noodles are served hot and cold alongside plates of classic Japanese dishes such as curries, tempura, katsu and donburi. Authentic Japanese udon bowls - such as the kamaage, hot noodles dipped in sauce and sprinkled with tempura flakes and green onion; sansai wakame, with seaweed and mountain vegetables and kizami mochi that features mochi in the bowl - share space on the menu with isle favorites such as curry udon, tempura udon and kake udon of simply fishcake and green onions. Whatever you order, end the meal with Bubbies green tea ice cream. New items to consider: Salmon, miso pork, oroshi udon of daikon and green onion over cold noodles, and Berkshire pork served atop udon and in a teishoku.","$$","",,
89,"JINROKU PACIFIC TEPPAN GRILL & BAR","If you're a fan of okonomiyaki and haven't yet discovered Jinroku in Waikiki, a treat awaits. The Tokyo restaurant's outpost offers some 15 okonomiyaki, with creative versions such as beef tendon and kim chee. The pizza okonomiyaki, a customer favorite, includes vegetables, potato, bacon, cheese, squid, shrimp and scallop, while the special features the kitchen sink: pork, beef, tako, prawn, scallop, squid and optional noodles. Jinroku's version of gyoza is given the pancake treatment, with filling spread over the flat pancake batter. But really, okonomiyaki is just the starting point. On the menu are 24 appetizers, 12 yakisoba offerings, 14 entrees and four types of fried rice. Chat with the friendly knife-twirling chefs, and see your dish made to order. Among favorites are rib-eye steak, grilled abalone, takoyaki and desserts of milk pudding and kuromitsu shave ice, topped with kuromitsu (black sugar syrup), condensed milk and kinako powder.","$$$","",,
90,"JJ BISTRO & FRENCH PASTRY","Though renowned for its signature Chocolate Pyramid mousse, JJ Bistro is also notable for its Euro-Laotian cuisine, courtesy of chef-owner JJ Praseuth Luangkhot. Start a meal right with an appetizer of baked oyster or soft-shell crab, deep fried and served with lemon-chili aioli. Continue with a longtime favorite dish of Baked Lamb Wellington or Fisherman Pie, a puff-pastry shell stuffed with seafood in cream curry sauce. Or try one of the new items, Lobster Pad Thai or lobster tail, prepared in either garlic white wine or cream sauce. The desserts are exquisite and extensive, from cherry cheesecake and Black Forest cake to a new New York cheesecake with local fruit toppings of lilikoi and guava.","$$","www.jjfrenchpastry.com",,
91,"KAHUKU FARMS","Taking the kids or a perhaps a visitor to see the island? Book a tour at Kahuku Farms, then stick around for a fresh, delicious meal afterward. Try a Grilled Veggie Panini Sandwich or vegetable Farm Pizza that boasts a mac-nut pesto. Then there are fresh fruit smoothies and ice cream made with Kahuku Farms produce, as well as freshly baked goods. Check the menu for new additions: a lineup of kale dishes and more pastries. Take home some of the farm's bottled and preserved items, such as a new marinade that goes with everything.","$","www.kahukufarms.com/farm-cafe.html. Lunch (closed Tuesdays).",,
93,"KAHUMANA ORGANIC FARM & CAFE","Talk about farm-to-table. At this quaint cafe, you can see the fields where the organic food on your plate was grown, and those dishes put a spotlight on the vibrant flavors of freshness. Chef Robert Zuckerman whips up all manner of food, from stir-frys, soups, salads, pastas and burgers to desserts, including vegetarian fare. He works with whatever comes off the farm, plus dairy products from nearby Naked Cow Dairy, fish from Waianae Boat Harbor, local grass-fed beef and organic chicken. ""It's about farm-to-table, wholeness, wellness, sustainability and inclusivity here,"" said the chef.","$$","www.kahumana.org",,
94,"KAI MARKET","My husband and I recently ventured to Kai Market at the Sheraton Waikiki for a combination sunset and dinner experience. We enjoyed a great view and a multicultural menu filled with interesting and unusual choices. Kai Market brings real elegance to the buffet - no steam tables in sight; the food laid out beautifully and constantly refreshed. I dutifully started at the salad bar, skipping all lettuce incarnations to go straight to a basil and tomato dish, which was delicious. My husband made a beeline for the poke, and once I had a bite of his, I backtracked to get some. Round 2 was lots of little tastings - alae-crusted prime rib, Thai seafood curry with tons of clams, roast chicken, crispy pork belly - then it was on to dessert. It was a lovely and enticing selection, including shave ice, but I already knew what I wanted: mango custard, which I'd tasted at our opening-night receptions at Diamond Head Theatre. Delicious. More good news: The kamaaina discount is 25 percent off the $55 regular price, with seniors getting an even better deal of $35!","$$$","www.sheraton-waikiki.com/ dining/kai.",,
95,"KAIMUKI SUPERETTE",,,,,
96,"KAIWA","A mix of the contemporary and traditional, Kaiwa offers modern Japanese fare made with locally sourced ingredients utilizing traditional Japanese techniques. A Pipikaula & Watercress Hot Salad combines grilled Hamakua mushrooms, Maui onions and Sumida watercress with a poached egg and onion dressing, while the Renkon Cheese Yaki appetizer serves up grilled lotus root slices with Kaiwa's special mix of six cheeses. It's cooked in a thin layer of crepe batter and served with Tabasco. The Tonpei Cheese Yaki presents thin slices of pork belly, onions, cabbage and bean sprouts wrapped in an egg batter like a burrito and topped with Japanese mayonnaise, okonomiyaki sauce, green onions and bonito flakes. A popular dinner entree, the 8-ounce rib-eye steak, appeals to Japanese and local diners alike, as does a dessert of a chocolate banana crepe. All of this is delivered in a contemporary, sleek setting reminiscent of Tokyo chic.","$$-$$$$","www.kai-wa.com",,
97,"KAKA'AKO KITCHEN","It's all about gourmet fare in a plate-lunch setting at chef Russell Siu's eatery at Ward Centre. Staples such as beef stew, loco moco and shoyu chicken are always on the menu, along with salads, wraps, sandwiches, pastas and desserts. New to the menu is shichimi-dusted chicken served with shiitakes and soy citrus sauce, and an old favorite has returned: madras curry. Always popular are the furikake tempura catfish, garlic chicken and sweet chili chicken. In fact, the two chicken dishes are so popular folks can't choose between them, so the kitchen is now offering the BOBC plate, the ""best of both chickens"" that goes half and half of each. Among dessert favorites are the banana poi bread, coconut butter mochi, lemon bar, double chocolate brownie and warm bread pudding with vanilla bean sauce.","$$","www.kakaakokitchen.com",,
98,"KALAPAWAI CAFE",,,,,
99,"KIMUKATSU","This Japanese chain with restaurants in Korea, the Philippines, Los Angeles and Hawaii specializes in a tonkatsu comprising 25 layers of thinly sliced pork. Kimukatsu's signature tonkatsu is fried at a low temperature, then steamed to ensure the perfect cutlet. Special sauces are served on the side. New to the menu is a lunch trio set, with a selection of original or black pepper katsu, one of three dipping sauces, and a side of agedashi tofu, hijiki or simmered pumpkin. For dinner, a new offering is the cheese katsu served with mentai mayonnaise sauce. Finish any meal with a dessert of mango pudding.","$$","www.kimukatsu.com/kimukatsu_eng",,
100,"KOKO HEAD CAFE","Yes, Koko Head Cafe is run by a real-deal chef. But Lee Anne Wong's food isn't of the polished-silver variety. It's more suited to chopsticks and sturdy, cafeteria-style metal utensils. But this doesn't mean her food is everyday fare either. Wong cooks as much locally produced food as she can get her hands on, presented in creative dishes that thrill the tummy. For instance: Trade in the usual eggs Benedict for Eggs Haloa, poached eggs on a poi biscuit with coconut luau, sour poi hollandaise and local greens. Swap oatmeal for Breakfast Congee with bacon, Portuguese sausage, ham, poached egg, cheddar cheese, scallions and cinnamon-bacon croutons. Starting to get the picture? Wong, a contestant in the inaugural season of ""Top Chef,"" moved to Hawaii in December to open the cafe, which inhabits the space formerly occupied by 12th Ave Grill. A New York native, Wong grew up loving dim sum, which she says she'd pick any day over bacon and eggs. So there's also Dumplings All Day Wong, a daily dumpling special.","$$","www.kokoheadcafe.com",,
101,"KONA BREWING CO.","Craft beers and waterfront ambience make this venue a popular stop after work or outdoor play. Kona Brewing carries 11 beers all year, supplemented by four or five seasonal beers. The restaurant is known for its pizzas, made with a dough that incorporates grain remaining from the beer-making. The lineup includes 20 specialty pizzas and 30 toppings for those who like to design their own pies. A favorite specialty is the Hawaiian Luau, a mix of Canadian bacon, fresh pineapple, roasted onion, and ricotta and mozzarella cheeses. Other top selections include the fresh fish, offered three ways: as poke, in tacos and filleted.","$$-$$$","www.konabrewingco.com",,
102,"KONA KAI SUSHI","This sushi restaurant is the real deal, offering a wide variety of fresh, high-quality fish. The food is so well done, even the soy sauce is made in-house. There are sushi sets and omakase, for which the chef will surprise you with delicacies. Or just order what you like. Recommended: hagashi maguro nigiri, a grainless version of Hawaiian maguro otoro nigiri, a Spanish bluefin tuna; the Blue Tama Roll, comprising unagi, blue crab and tamago topped with tempura flakes; a Miso Salmon Scallop Roll and a Salmon Skin Salad.","$$-$$$$","",,
103,"L & L","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$","www.hawaiianbarbecue.com",,
104,"LA CUCINA RISTORANTE ITALIANO","La Cucina is a prime example of the importance of culinary lineage. Chef-owner Don Truong captures the bold, intense and rustic homespun essence of Italian cooking in the spirit of mentor Fabrizio Favale of Il Mediterraneo. It stands apart from other Italian places in town that share either Japanese provenance or Assaggio's kinship. The restaurant is small, which is manageable for Truong, who insists on creating his dishes from scratch, but the size restriction makes it hard to get a table without a reservation. Still, people are willing to show up for house-made pasta that begins with semolina flour for an elasticity and heft that gives his ribbonlike trenette a wonderful, toothsome al dente quality, able to stand up to such weighty ingredients as his homemade Italian sausage, sauteed with onions, garlic and porcini, and topped with a sprinkling of pecorino romano in the dish Trenette Norcina. The menu is full of classic dishes ranging from pesce Provencale sauteed in a lemon-butter sauce with fresh herbs and tomatoes to squid-ink Ravioli Neri filled with lobster and served in a sauce of basil and saffron cream. In addition to other pasta basics such as fettuccine carbonara, frutti di mare and vongole, you're welcome to create your own dish by choosing a pasta, sauce and topping of chicken, fish or shrimp.","$$$","www.lacucinaristoranteitaliano.com",,
105,"LA MER","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$$$","www.halekulani.com/la-mer-restaurant",,
106,"LA TOUR CAFE","Since opening in 2011, La Tour's artisan breads have kept hungry patrons coming back to its Nimitz cafe for more. The cafe's European-inspired menu spotlights tasty flatbread pizzas, sandwiches and burgers, as well as French macarons to die for. Top sellers include the Kobe beef French dip, wagyu beef burgers and a porchetta sandwich - roast pork belly seasoned with Italian spices and topped with caramelized onions, arugula and a balsamic vinaigrette, served in a baguette - that's served on weekends. La Tour opened a cafe at the Gateway Shopping Center in Pearl City last year with the same menu, but the locations offer different specials that rotate quarterly. Sandwich fans will want to visit both to sample all of La Tour's creations.","$","www.latourcafe.com",,
107,"LE BISTRO","One thing's for sure when you dine at Le Bistro: The food on the plate will always be impeccably prepared. In fact, because chef-owner Alan Takasaki insists on consistency and quality, the restaurant's menu of classic and modern French-inspired dishes hasn't changed much since it opened in 2001. And that's just fine with loyal diners, who stop in regularly for their favorites such as the French onion soup, beef quartet and apple tarte tatin. The lineup reflects influences from early in Takasaki's career when he worked in France and then Germany during the 1980s. The quaint venue is comfortable yet formal enough to celebrate special occasions, and the waitstaff enhances the experience with its attentive, knowledgeable service. Other recommendations: wine-braised short ribs, rack of lamb, escargot, tartare of ahi.","$$$$",,,
108,"LEGEND SEAFOOD RESTAURANT","At Legend you'll be treated to a wide variety of dim sum by day and the freshest seafood by night. Legend rotates its dim sum menu every two to three weeks, often executing fresh recipes to add to the dumpling lineup. This summer, for instance, heavenly small buns were deep fried and cooked with condensed milk. For evening fare, expect only the freshest of seafood. Chefs aren't wedded to advance plans they tailor their menu to what's at the market. Fresh mussels are sometimes flown in from Seattle or New Zealand, served in garlic or black bean sauce. For all that improvising, several mainstays are customer favorites: deep-fried taro and mochi puffs, joong (sweet rice laced with roast pork), shrimp or scallop look funn, chicken feet, seafood in a taro basket, tea-smoked chicken, and kau yuk by request. On Saturdays and Sundays, enjoy crispy chicken and roast barbecue ribs.","$$","www.legendseafoodhonolulu.com",,
109,"LILIHA BAKERY & COFFEE SHOP","We're cuckoo for Liliha's famous Coco Puffs, fresh pastries and cakes, and its charming diner counter straight out of the '50s. The simple things make this longtime landmark a pleasure: pulling a number at the bakery case sitting at the counter with a cup of coffee, watching your burger on the grill that amazing grilled butter roll with neon-red jelly that comes with each meal. Perennial top sellers: the loco moco, hamburger steak, hotcakes and grilled mahimahi. Liliha's second location, which opened in July in the former Sam Choy's on Nimitz Highway, is a modernized restaurant with 150 seats, compared with 21 at the original bakery. Its menu is expanded as well, offering new items such as roast pork, baby back ribs and prime rib. Top sellers here are the loco moco, omelet, beef cutlet and pork cutlet.","$","www.lilihabakeryhawaii.com",,
110,"LITTLE SHEEP MONGOLIAN HOT POT","Flavor and variety are the operative words at this international hot-pot restaurant from China that leaves everyone at the table feeling satisfied and soothed. Start with a choice of broths, from a signature herbal version boasting dozens of herbs and spices, to spicy broths chock-full of dried chilies for which diners can pick their level of heat. A dipping condiment bar of ponzu and other sauces adds another layer of flavor. Protein options include more than three dozen beef, chicken, pork and seafood selections, not to mention the lamb featured in the venue's name. Beyond the standard thinly sliced meats, think sausage, fishcake and an array of meatballs. Then there's a short list of dumplings, a tofu menu (soft, sponge, fried, etc.) and a lengthy (no pun intended) noodle menu. As for vegetables, suffice it to say there's something for everyone, from varieties of mushrooms to lotus and taro root, and a host of greens, from standard won bok to exotic chrysanthemum greens. No matter where you go for hot-pot dining, sliced meats will always deliver, but the lamb meatballs are a distinctive, delicious option here, and tiger shrimp takes on wonderful hues of flavor from the broths. For beverages, find a lineup of hot and cold teas, and a much-lauded watermelon juice, refreshing relief when partaking of the spicy broth. Budget-conscious diners will love the $12.95 lunch special, with attentive servers adding appeal for those on a quick break.","$-$$$","www.littlesheephotpot.com",,
111,"LITTLE VILLAGE NOODLE HOUSE","Big flavors abound at this Chinatown hot spot, a hit for its fresh take on Chinese cuisine, cheerful ambience and convenient parking. The decor is whimsical - there's even a soundtrack of chirping birds - while the food is seriously delicious. Mostly Northern Chinese in style, dishes are marked with use of spices rather than gravies, but there are familiar Cantonese offerings. Recommended: honey walnut shrimp, dried string beans in chili garlic sauce, crisp and spicy pan-fried beef and Volcano Pork Chop. New and well-received dishes: scallops served over baby spinach, Sizzling Teri Rib-Eye Steak, Portobello Mushroom Snow Pea Stir-fry and Duck Leg Ramen, braised duck with kai choy in wonton soup over ramen.","$$","www.littlevillagehawaii.com",,
112,"LIVESTOCK",,,,,
113,"LUCKY BELLY","A deceptively short menu belies the delight you'll find at this venue that serves up thoughtful, thoroughly delicious fare for lunch and dinner, as well as late night, in Chinatown. Much has been said of the Lucky Bowl, wakame ramen in a thick pork broth topped with a soft egg. There is also a meat lover's Belly Bowl with pork belly, bacon and sausage, and the Beast Bowl of brisket, short rib and oxtail wonton. But that's just part of the menu. Hefty appetizers include crabcakes, pork belly bao, oxtail dumplings and lamb lumpia. Recommended: brown butter gnocchi made with sage, four kinds of mushrooms, Ho Farms cherry tomatoes and lemon juice. New to the menu is a lobster siu mai appetizer, embellished with Meyer lemon beurre blanc and edamame puree.","$-$$","www.luckybelly.com",,
114,"LUIBUENO'S MEXICAN & LATIN CUISINE","If you're craving a good Baja-style fish taco, look no further than this North Shore hangout. Luibueno's does it right, with crisp beer-battered fish, cabbage, cilantro, cheese, red roasted salsa and white sauce. Also established customer favorites are the blackened (seared) ahi and carne asada tacos. Wash it down with a stellar margarita try li hing, tamarind or classic. Owners Luis and Taryn Silva strive to share the cuisine of Luis' Mexican heritage and San Diego upbringing while using fresh local fish and produce. The colorful eatery has a warm, energetic vibe and draws a crowd, especially at happy hour (4-6 p.m. weekdays and 9:30-10:30 p.m. daily). Other favorites: Mama Silva's guacamole, oysters on the half shell, garlic butter steamed clams, and chipotle baby back ribs with Mexican street-style corn. Cap it all off with fried ice cream.","$$-$$$","www.luibueno.com",,
115,"MAC 24/7 BAR + RESTAURANT","This joint beloved by locals is housed in an unlikely location, the Hilton Waikiki Beach Hotel. Nevertheless, big eaters and all their friends frequent the restaurant known for its enormous portions. The lineup of ""Modern American Cooking"" includes such staples as the popular braised short ribs, seared ahi, Hawaiian Huli Chicken, Local Style Fried Rice, and Fried Chicken and Waffles. But MAC 24/7 is best known for its gargantuan pancakes, served all day. Also recommended: Ahi Poke Tacos, Lobster BLT, kale and roasted beet salad, and the Seven-Cheese Mac n Cheese.","$$-$$$","www.mac247waikiki.com",,
116,"MAGURO-YA","Maguro is typically sliced and diced for everyday sashimi and poke, or simply fried on a grill. At Maguro-ya, which takes its name from the Japanese word for tuna, or ahi, the fish is accorded elevated status so that seafood aficionados who proclaim tuna the least interesting of fish will be compelled to rethink their position. Diners can eat like kings during a leisurely lunch here, which might start with fork-tender braised ahi kakuni, then move on to ono ahi ribs marinated in a sauce of shoyu, sake, mirin and garlic, fried to a light crisp with a delicate potato starch crust. This could easily become your next addiction. The presentation is great and there is always plenty to explore, from a la carte to teishoku specialties, whether on the menu or specials posted on the walls throughout the casual restaurant. Chef-owner Goro Ohara takes pride in heading to the fish market every morning for the best available, as well as delivering a change from basic sushi bar fare with specialties flown in from Japan. The adventurous can sample such delicacies as hamo (daggertooth pike conger), megochi (big-eyed flathead) and kisu (sand borer). For a real treat, try the buttery engawa sushi, made from the delicate fin section of the halibut. It's not all about fish. For meat eaters there is pork katsu and grilled steak. Weekly lunch specials are about $12. For that price you might get butterfish belly misoyaki or chicken nanban with pickled vegetables, rice, miso soup and fresh fruit. Finish with warabi mochi, the Japanese pound cake castella, or ice cream.","$$","www.maguro-ya.us",,
117,"MAHALA BURGER",,,,,
118,"MAILE'S THAI BISTRO","Maile's offers an intimate dining experience with dimmed lighting, a full bar and an extensive menu of curries, noodles, stir-fries, seafood, soups and an array of crowd-pleasing appetizers such as the fresh lettuce wraps (with minced chicken and shrimp); Maile Combo Platter of spring rolls, calamari, chicken satay and fish patties and Chicken Trio with satay, fried and angel-wing varieties. Highly recommended are the spicy lemon grass soup with chicken, green papaya salad, pad ka tiem (Thai garlic stir-fry), pad thai (rice noodles with bean sprouts) and pad ki mao (spicy basil noodles). End the night on a sweet note with the sweet condensed milk-filled crepe with coconut ice cream and a drizzling of chocolate. Delicious!","$$","www.mailesthaibistro.com",,
119,"MARIPOSA","Make lunch with friends extra special at Mariposa. Start with the popovers, a can't-lose deal - they're complimentary and delicious. New lunch items include a play on the shrimp cocktail, wherein grilled shrimp are plated over an avocado puree with Maui pineapple; tomato gazpacho garnished with orange fennel and ogo (seaweed) salad and a Waialua asparagus salad dressed with snow crab, speck (cured ham), a pan-fried egg and green peppercorn vinaigrette. If you've run overtime on shopping, take a dinner break with an appetizer of pork belly and seared scallops accompanied by pickled watercress and lilikoi brown butter, and an entree of queso fresco-stuffed roasted chicken breast in aji amarillo sauce served with Peruvian long-grain rice and lentils sprouted in-house.","$$$","www.neimanmarcushawaii.com",,
120,"MEI SUM DIM SUM RESTAURANT","It can be crowded and loud, and the service can leave much to be desired. But Mei Sum is still a go-to for many, offering tasty dim sum, hot and fresh, priced right, all day. Yes, even at night. Go straight for the good stuff: Order the deep-fried garlic soft-shell crab and the deep-fried garlic eggplant. You won't be disappointed. There are so many other good things to eat: Shanghai dumplings, taro puffs, seafood siu mai, spinach and scallop dumplings, mochi rice in lotus leaf, mochi puffs, seaweed rolls, pepper sauce shrimp, char siu bao, shrimp-pork siu mai, look funn ... the list goes on.","$","",,
121,"MICHEL'S AT THE COLONY SURF",,"$$$$","www.michelshawaii.com",,
122,"MILLION RESTAURANT","It's all about the basics. With efficient service, large tables and fluorescent lighting, you can get down to the business of of enjoying the impressive array of side dishes and better cuts of meat, served at an attractive price point. Open until midnight on Fridays and Saturdays, the restaurant takes on a festive atmosphere on weekends, as dating couples, friends and family groups headed to or from a night on the town stop in for good grinds.","$$-$$$",,,
123,"MING'S CHINESE RESTAURANT","Ming's boasts three different menus - Shanghai, Cantonese and Korean - but is known for its Shanghai-authentic xiao long bao, delicately wrapped steamed dumplings filled with flavorful soup and ground pork. If ever in doubt, ask the friendly staffers for recommendations or you could end up with an overly exotic dish too authentic for some local palates. The less daring should go with the boneless chicken cake noodle, orange chicken and roast duck, all of which are tasty and highly recommended.","$$","",,
124,"MITCH'S FISH MARKET & SUSHI BAR","Send adventurous visitors and friends looking for a unique dining experience to Mitch's. The industrial feel can be off-putting at first, but it's easily forgotten once you step inside and see all the beautiful seafood. Dinner reservations are a breeze due to recent renovations, but it's still fun to sit and watch sushi chefs Hideo Mitsui and Masakazu Murakami at work, so call ahead and ask for one of five seats at the actual sushi bar. For $75 per person (two-order minimum), the Chef's Special is a great value for the type of sushi served. Among the delicacies, you get a serving of lobster sashimi - including the head, which is served later in miso soup - plus a taste of toro and whatever fish might be on special that night.","$$-$$$$","www.mitchsushi.com",,
125,"MOLLY'S BBQ & SEAFOOD","At Molly's the choices are simple: ""You want pig, you want cow or you want fish?"" says manager A.J. Whitehurst. There's chicken, too, and his customers are pretty equally divided on preference. For me though, it's the barbecued chicken, followed closely by the ribs. Moist, tender, smoky, succulent - I would go on, but you get it. Whitehurst smokes the meats in a giant contraption parked out front like a signpost: It may as well say, ""Pull over here quick for great Southern barbecue."" Molly's - formerly Molly's Smokehouse - also offers pulled pork and beef brisket from the smoker, as well as fried chicken and catfish, Smothered Pork Chops and jambalaya. Plates come with two sides (I recommend the Cowboy Ranch Beans, a savory alternative to the sweeter baked beans, but you can also get collards, coleslaw or fried okra). Almost everything is made from scratch, from the gumbo to the lemonade, and the TLC shows. Owner Margaret Walker has plans to expand the menu. Right now the ""& Seafood"" part is fairly limited. But I'm perfectly happy with what's there, as any barbecue aficionado would be.","$$","www.mollyssmokehouse.com",,
126,"MONKEYPOD KITCHEN BY MERRIMAN","Peter Merriman has many restaurants on many islands, all ruled by his commitment to local produce, meats and fish. His one Oahu restaurant is in the Ko Olina resort and so draws a high number of tourists, which is an efficient way to teach out-of-towners about our island bounty. Most direct path to the brain is through the stomach, right? They can learn of a place called MA'O Farms that produces the kale and arugula served in refreshing salads - one with Maui onions and mac nuts, the other with blue cheese and Asian pear. They can learn that mushrooms grow in Hamakua and grass-fed beef on the Big Island - one served atop a wood-oven pizza, the other in an all-American cheeseburger. But the tourists aren't the only ones getting the good stuff. Merriman's is a popular west-side venue for locals, too, drawn by the Pumpkin Patch Ravioli (stuffed with roasted squash), Bulgogi Pork Tacos and saimin loaded with toppings.","$$-$$$","www.monkeypodkitchen.com",,
127,"MORIMOTO WAIKIKI","Good news in 2014 for fans of ""Iron Chef"" Masaharu Morimoto and his Waikiki outpost: New items are on the restaurant's distinctive menu. These include a fresh snapper served with mild, Thai-style curry and Morimoto's ""pork chops and applesauce"" (a humorous ""Brady Bunch"" reference), served with an exquisite apple puree, kim chee and bacon. Morimoto deftly blends technique, creativity and an impulse to entertain - an approach that doesn't thrill all diners but rewards those who appreciate his bold humor. For more proof, try the restaurant's version of gyoza embellished with Hamakua tomato sauce and an amazing bacon-flavored foam, the hamachi tacos or ""duck, duck, duck"" (served three ways, as seared duck breast, confit spring roll and in duck meatball soup). If in search of a sure thing, the sushi and sashimi are superb and beautifully presented, while the restaurant, bright and airy, is good for people-watching or taking in sunset from the large lanai. Don't neglect dessert: New items such as a tofu cheesecake infused with lemon grass, ginger and vanilla, charmingly plated and topped with a decorative gold flake, will revive your sense of sight and taste, even after a large meal.","$$$-$$$$","www.morimotowaikiki.com",,
128,"MORIO'S SUSHI BISTRO","Some of the most coveted seats in town belong to this tiny, BYOB sushi bar helmed by the amiable chef Morio Arime, a Japanese fish importer by day. Its 18 seats and two seatings per night are perpetually booked three months out. The draw? Quality, affordable sushi, lovingly prepared by Arime, and a casual, intimate setting where the drinks and laughter flow. If you snag a seat, reserve the omakase course and let Arime spoil you. He may roll out some fatty ahi, buttery hamachi, crunchy clam, sweet abalone or pan-fried hamachi kama. The showstopper is the live lobster sashimi - not for the squeamish, as the still-moving body is presented beside its tasty tail meat. Later, the head and claws are served in an umami-licious miso soup. Omakase here is a deal, with $60 satisfying most appetites. You can also order a la carte besides nigiri and rolls, there are goodies such as katsu skewers, Seafood Dynamite, seared moi and soft-shell crab tempura. Don't forget to bring your own sake or beer. (Arime and staff won't object to you sharing.)","$$-$$$$","",,
129,"MORNING GLASS COFFEE + CAFE","Coffee aficionados islewide have heard about Morning Glass, where the brew is always excellent thanks to a regular supply of fresh roasts from all over the globe. And foodies know the Manoa venue is notable for pushing classic breakfast food into the realm of gourmet. The weekday menu is short and sweet: a house-made English muffin piled with applewood-smoked bacon, local egg, Gruyere, baby arugula and tomato jam; a breakfast burrito of egg, potatoes, roasted peppers and onions, Vermont cheddar and meat, all wrapped in a flour tortilla and steel-cut oats seasoned with sweet spices and topped with caramelized brown sugar and fresh fruit. On weekends, the menu is beefed up with pancakes, skillets, fried rice and omelets. At lunch, look for a lineup that takes the same approach - simple, classic sandwiches using exceptional ingredients. New to Morning Glass: baked doughnuts Thursdays and Fridays, which join the regular monthly events of Burger Night (second Wednesday) and Breakfast Night (last Wednesday). Also, Morning Glass has settled into a space at Fishcake in Kakaako to offer grab-and-go service with all the same delights offered in Manoa.","$","www.morningglasscoffee.com",,
130,"MORTON'S THE STEAKHOUSE","This upscale, Chicago-born global chain boasts that it has the best steak anywhere, and continues trying to prove it with well-marbled, aged USDA prime cuts, such as the 24-ounce porterhouse, a signature 16-ounce New York strip, the Chicago-style prime 22-ounce bone-in rib-eye, and a 48-ounce double porterhouse for two. Its most popular cut, however, is the filet mignon, offered in 6, 8 and 12 ounces. But beyond the beef are other delectable dishes, such as a chilled seafood appetizer of Maine lobster, jumbo shrimp cocktail, jumbo lump crab, Alaskan king crab legs and oysters on the half shell. Desserts are just as decadent - take the classic Morton's souffle, served warm in Grand Marnier.","$$$$","www.mortons.com/honolulu",,
131,"MURPHY'S BAR & GRILL","This honest-to-goodness Irish pub has been serving up pints of Guinness since 1987 when Don Murphy purchased this historic saloon. Back in the day, when it was known as the Royal Hotel, the space was said to have been frequented by royalty and celebrity alike, such as King David Kalakaua and Robert Louis Stevenson. Today, take a seat and get served shepherd's pie, corned beef and cabbage, or fish and chips, dishes that have drawn in lunch and pau hana crowds for decades. There are also burgers, steaks, salads and seafood entrees, and beers on tap, seasonals and beer specials. Customer favorites: Gaelic steak, a New York steak topped with green peppercorn sauce pot roast; Irish Dip Sandwich, sirloin slices on baguette with horseradish mayo and Guinness au jus; and an open-face turkey.","$$","www.murphyshawaii.com",,
132,"MW RESTAURANT","The M is for Michelle, the W for Wade. Wife and husband. Powerhouse team. The opening of MW last year was a highly anticipated foodie event, the two chefs being among the best known on chef Alan Wong's staff. The dining experience lived up to expectations - adventurous and inspired. The two have clearly stepped out of the great man's shadow. Their food embodies the Hawaii Regional Cuisine/farm-fresh movement, but Wade Ueoka further defines it as local comfort food, best exemplified by two soups: Portuguese bean and oxtail. These are not your mama's beans and Ôtails. The bean soup is a Korean hybrid packed with kim chee; the oxtail incorporates corned beef and pork belly. Dynamic local flavors, done right. Ueoka's most popular offering is mochi-crusted opakapaka with somen noodles and a soy-yuzu vinaigrette - a dish with creativity, crackle and class. Dessert is Michelle Karr-Ueoka's territory and she owns it. She has a masterful way with chocolate, but the menu's leading contender is her Tropical Fruit Creamsicle Brulee, a beautiful plate of sorbet, custard, chiffon cake, tapioca pearls and fruit in small, refreshing bites. MW offers afternoon tea on the third Sunday of each month and a daily happy hour from 2 to 5 p.m. featuring $5 plates. Here you can try the ""Spam Musubi"" of mochi-crusted smoked pork meatloaf and a quail egg. Definitely not your mama's musubi.","$$-$$$","www.mwrestaurant.com",,
133,"NANZAN GIROGIRO","The changing of the seasons, the zen of contemplating one's food and tasting its subtleties, and the theater of a chef's work come alive at this contemporary kaiseki restaurant, one of four in the world (others in Japan and Paris). There is no menu to peruse, no choice to make (aside from your drink), just the show and the exquisite food - a value at $58. Diners sit on the perimeter of an open kitchen, watching as the month's menu - six to eight tasting courses reflecting the season in varied textures, flavors and preparations - comes together with precision by chef Yoshi Matsumoto and staff. Each dish is a work of art, presented in earthenware by Kyoto ceramist Nanzan. Honolulu specialties include foie gras manju, Kyoto-style fish broth (suimono changes each month, depending on fish from Tokyo) and a matcha item at dessert. These three are always on the menu, though their styles change. The rest is a surprise.","$$$","www.guiloguilo.com",,
134,"NICO'S AT PIER 38","Nico's has come a long way from its days as a takeout counter pumping out $10 plate lunches. But its mission remains the same: fresh fish, straight from the auction (steps away), at an affordable price. The new restaurant is an airy, modern space right on the water, with an up-close view of the harbor, its fishing boats and cargo ships. A full bar offers wines on tap and indoor and outdoor seating. Chef Nicolas ""Nico"" Chaize and staff still serve lunch classics such as fish and chips, fried ahi belly, beef stew, chicken katsu, his famous cheeseburger and the ever-popular furikake seared ahi. But the chef also flexes his French cooking skills in dishes such as steak frites (seared skirt steak with herbed butter), clams sauteed in white wine, Nicoise salad with blackened ahi, red wine-braised short ribs and bouillabaisse. Also delicious: the catch of the day, poisson cru (Tahitian ceviche), fisherman's stew. Save room for dessert, which is stellar here. Tiramisu, salted caramel cake, lilikoi meringue tart, carrot cake, chocolate cake, apple pie ... it's all good. Looking for a great grab-and-go lunch?â€ˆTry Nico's adjacent fish market, offering tasty poke bowls and Hawaiian food, as well as fresh seafood, in-house smoked fish, beer, wine, cold drinks and snacks.","$-$$","www.nicospier38.com",,
135,"NOBU WAIKIKI","After several years of operation, Nobu Waikiki still holds the promise of rewarding discoveries. For the best experience, trust this restaurant's confident servers to guide you based on your preferences, and pay special attention to off-menu specials. Surprises include broiled king crab leg topped with truffle and panko. It's also worth noting that Nobu is one of a handful of restaurants that treat vegetables as an intrinsic part of the meal - intensifying flavors in a sensual and earthy yet sophisticated manner. A tobanyaki (sizzling platter) of vegetables can be as rewarding as tobanyaki of wagyu beef. If available, Nobu's lobster with a browned butter sauce and vegetables is a splendid illustration of the kitchen's command of technique and presentation. The overall effect is well balanced, leaving diners sated and satisfied. Chef Nobuyuki ""Nobu"" Matsuhisa's Peruvian-influenced approach to preparation rewards over multiple visits - and repeat visits would be necessary to adequately explore the extensive menu of small and large plates, hot and cold items.","$$$$","www.noburestaurants.com/Waikiki",,
136,"NOOK",,,,,
137,"OLIVE TREE CAFE","Simple, honest flavors of the Mediterranean shine at this cozy neighborhood bistro serving arguably the best Greek food on the island. Tangy lemon and yogurt, fresh herbs, fruity olive oil, ripe tomatoes, salty roe, earthy lamb and feta, tanniny grape leaves. Each dish is fresh and made well, from the amazing hummus and baba ghanoush (garlicky roasted-eggplant dip) to the avgolemono (egg lemon soup) and the souvlaki (marinated, grilled kebabs). Go early to snag a seat - it gets crowded - and bring your own wine or beer, or check out the imported bottles at sister shop Oliver next door. Dining alfresco on the bistro tables, surrounded by stringed lights and Greek music, it can feel quite magical, quite far away. Popular: fresh fish souvlaki, hummus, baba ghanoush, mussels ceviche, taramasalata (caviar spread).","$-$$","",,
138,"ONO HAWAIIAN FOODS","Old Hawaii lives on at this Kapahulu hole-in-the-wall, its 10 or so little tables kept bustling day and night by visitors from nearby Waikiki. Prepare for a wait outside - and then a time warp. All your favorite Hawaiian dishes are still served in green cafeteria-style dishes, the walls are plastered with years of autographed photos, news clippings and awards and cash is the only way to pay. The food is classic Hawaiian, from kalua pig and poi to naau puaa (pig intestines and luau leaves) and tripe stew. Must try: the big, juicy pork lau lau; salt meat luau; salt meat watercress.","$$-$$$","www.onohawaiianfoods.com",,
139,"ORCHIDS","Halekulani's casual-elegant restaurant offers exquisite oceanfront scenery and contemporary seafood fare. Orchids is particularly known for its Sunday brunch buffet, a top-notch smorgasbord featuring signature popovers, a suckling pig, prime rib, sushi and sashimi, an omelet station, ice cream bar, the hotel's famous coconut cake and much more. Daily breakfast offerings include poached eggs on Alaskan king crab with hollandaise, a Japanese breakfast with fish and miso soup, popovers and haupia bread French toast. Lunch and dinner feature Orchids' signature Chinese-style steamed onaga, ahi crudo and olive oil poached salmon.","$$$-$$$$","www.halekulani.com",,
140,"PAH KE'S CHINESE RESTAURANT","Fifteen years strong, this beloved Kaneohe restaurant has found its niche serving delicious, MSG-free traditional Hong Kong cuisine, and then some. For one, the secret's out on its gourmet desserts. Folks are flocking for chef/co-owner Raymond Siu's works of art: gold leaf-flecked Chocolate Decadence (a flourless Belgian-chocolate cake), vanilla bean soy milk custard with mango sorbet, Okinawan sweet potato cheese tart, and lilikoi and mango mousse cakes, to name a few. Siu says customers won't let him scratch such fresh Chinese-Hawaiian fusion items as jumbo scallops with asparagus and crispy spinach. And salads such as the ahi sashimi salad with soy-ginger-lime-herb dressing and 'Nalo greens/Maui onion salad have been very popular.","$-$$","www.pahke.com",,
141,"PA'INA CAFE","We love our poke bowls, and Pa'ina Cafe ltes us create our dream bowl from at least seven types of poke, brown or white rice or salad, hot and mild sauces, and 14 toppings including kim chee, taegu, pickled onions, natto, yamaimo, furikake and tempura flakes. If that's too many choices, go with a signature bowl: The Poke Crunch Bowl (teri glaze, tempura flakes) or Hawaiian Poke Bowl (with kalua pig, lomi salmon). But there's more than poke here. Sandwiches, salads, plate lunches and acai bowls all provide fresh, healthy options. Don't forget your drink: choose from Italian cream sodas, flavored iced teas, coffees, green tea lattes and shakes and more. Other top picks: Shichimi seared ahi bowl, steak and shrimp plate, seared ahi plate, and spicy tuna salad.","$","www.painacafe.com",,
142,"PANCAKES & WAFFLES",,,,,
143,"PANYA BISTRO","The familiar blue glow of Annie and Alice Yeung's trendy cafe means slurping laksa and spicy wontons, and sipping fresh lychee martinis and Illy coffee with the BFFs. In its 17th year and with new digs in Hokua, Panya continues to sate us with homestyle comfort food and luscious baked goods, in a chic, modern space with indoor and outdoor seating and that blue-light bar. It's a great place to catch up with friends any time of day. Other dishes we love: oxtail stew, Thai-style steak salad, homemade gyoza. Do save room for dessert. Three words: mango mousse cake.","$$-$$$","www.panyabakery.com",,
145,"PIG & THE LADY, THE",,"$-$$$$","www.thepigandthelady.com",,
146,"PINEAPPLE ROOM, BY ALAN WONG, THE","The little sister to the acclaimed chef's signature restaurant has fun leading hungry shoppers by the nose to its corner of Macy's Ala Moana, offering a gracious rest stop, full bar and the breakfasts and lunches that big brother doesn't get to do. The Alan Wong team's zeal for celebrating the flavors and bounty of Hawaii shines in hapa-haole twists - the kim chee Reuben, kalua pig taro hash eggs Benedict - and local classics such as miso butterfish, braised short ribs and steamed onaga. Popular: Kuahiwi Ranch loco moco, New Zealand salmon ochazuke risotto, Guri Guri cocktail, Haupia Tapioca Halo Halo. And the burger is consistently rated among Oahu's best.","$$-$$$$","www.alanwongs.com",,
147,"PINT+JIGGER","Craft libations, upscale grub and a rustic-modern ambience add up to gastropub greatness for owners Hideo Simon and Dave Newman. No run-of-the-mill bar food here; they smoke their own pork for sliders, case their own brats, make their own lager cheddar cheese and barrel-age their own cocktails. The menu and 21 taps are constantly changing to offer new tastes, save for crowd-pleasing staples such as the P&J Stout Burger (lager cheese, garlic aioli), the Scotch Egg (soft-boiled, wrapped in pork, breaded and deep-fried), the Applewood Smoked Double-Cut Bacon (with spicy corn salsa), the spiral-cut barbecue potato chips, and the Brandy and Bacon Strawberries. As for the libations, you can't go wrong with one of the $10 specialty cocktails: the Mesquite Smoked Manhattan, the Moscow Mule, or the award-winning Smoking Gun; Margarita (with blood orange, fresh lilikoi and smoked macadamia). Very sexy.","$$","www.pintandjigger.com",,
148,"PIONEER SALOON","Pioneer Saloon offers ono local-kine plate lunches with a Japanese flair, so don't let the country-Western name and vibe fool you. Regulars order the ahi (Cajun-style, garlic and grilled), rib-eye, miso salmon, hamburger steak or one of the crisp katsu varieties (chicken, pork hamburger or ahi), perhaps even the beef tongue, but growing in popularity are the garlic scallops and creamy chicken, both new additions to the menu. As if choosing an entree isn't hard enough, you must also pick a rice type. Skip the generic white or brown and go with the shiso wakame or mixed-grains and beans.","$-$$","",,
149,"RESTAURANT KO","Restaurant Ko, which arrived on Honolulu's dining scene in early 2013, has taken its place as a Kaimuki favorite. With a clean, whitewashed design that emphasizes private nooks and cheerful spaces, the Japanese restaurant straddles the line between izakaya and upscale destination, delivering delicious value and enjoyment. A fine way to enjoy the varied offerings is the $55 ""Ko-Course"" kaiseki, nine courses that include a six-choice appetizer, choice of sashimi or beef shabu-shabu salad, the restaurant's signature lotus root manju - a welcome mix of textures in a savory, thickened broth - and a choice of main dish. The restaurant handles raw fish and cooked dishes well; the pleasures include foie gras sauteed with simmered daikon. If the kaiseki dinner is too much, there are myriad choices on the menu to mix it up, from simmered pumpkin to sashimi platters, and wagyu beef served as sushi, carpaccio, tataki or grilled. Bonus: Restaurant Ko is open late - until midnight Sundays and until 2 a.m. Mondays and Wednesdays through Saturdays. (Closed Tuesdays.)","$$$$",,,
150,"RESTAURANT KUNIO","Lots of quality Japanese food to be found here: noodle dishes (udon and soba), donburi, teishoku meals (which come with miso soup and a salad) and combination choices including crispy shrimp tempura, melt-in-your-mouth miso butterfish, fresh sashimi, soft-shell crab, chicken katsu and saba. There's even a sushi bar (which opens daily at 11 a.m.) so have a seat at the counter and watch the sushi chef in action. If there's more than four in your party, ask for the Funamori Boat for a nice sampling of lobster, tempura, teri beef, chicken katsu, sashimi and sushi in an impressive presentation, and it even comes with miso soup and salad for four. Finding a parking stall in Waikele Center AND scoring an open table (no reservations allowed) at Kunio both require patience, but it's always well worth the wait.","$$-$$$","www.restaurantkunio.com",,
151,"ROY'S","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$$","www.royshawaii.com",,
152,"RUMFIRE","RumFire is a happening spot for pau hana drinks and late-night specials while partying to the sounds of live DJs and music. Show up earlier for happy hour (with great food and drink specials) before the crowd fills in to relax, sip on a cocktail (or two) and let yourself be lulled by priceless scenic views overlooking the beach and iconic Diamond Head. Oh, and the food! Perfect for sharing pupu-style, try the kalua pork nachos (slathered with cheddar cheese and a Maui onion salsa), kim chee fried rice and Yukon french fries, or go for the curry banh mi sandwich (actually on a baguette) and fish tacos, which now comes with a corn salsa.","$$-$$$","www.rumfirewaikiki.com",,
153,"RUTH'S CHRIS STEAK HOUSE","Ruth's Chris Steak House has always been my go-to place, where I can count on the best service, outstanding food and an incredible wine selection. Start your evening here with the seared ahi, cooked to perfection and served with a ginger-mustard beer sauce; or the favorite of many locals is Veal Osso Buco Ravioli, filled with fresh mozzarella and infused with a hint of saffron. For an entree, Cowboy Rib Eye is a steak marbled to perfection, USDA Prime at its best. Sides are always a difficult choice, but my most-wanted is the fresh corn. Other top choices are fresh asparagus, grilled tomatoes and lyonnaise potatoes. And my dessert? Chocolate Sin Cake with a nice port. A tip: As a change of pace, dining at the bar is an excellent alternative to sitting at a table. The bartenders are engaging, lively and fun, some of the best in town. They ensure your dining experience is perfect.","$$$","www.ruthschris.com",,
154,"RYAN'S GRILL","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$$","www.ryansgrill.com",,
155,"SANSEI SEAFOOD RESTAURANT & SUSHI BAR","The awards keep piling up for owner/chef D.K. Kodama and his upscale restaurant because, simply put, there are so many award-worthy dishes to choose from. For starters, there are the Banzai oyster shooter and fresh hamachi carpaccio with truffle ponzu vinaigrette. No regrets here. Then, the sushi, beautifully presented like an art masterpiece, so fresh and delicious, namely the award-winning mango crab salad hand roll and Dragonfly Roll (spicy tuna topped off with maguro and avocado), once regarded as only a specialty but now on the menu for good. Also recommended are the panko-crusted ahi sashimi, grilled ahi and shrimp cake, and king crab ramen immersed in a rich, to-die-for Asian truffle butter broth. Ask about craft cocktail pairings for the ultimate food experience. Sansei transforms into a late-night hangout with free karaoke on Fridays and open-mic nights on Saturdays. Can it get better? Why, yes. Check out happy hour, from 5:30 to 6 p.m. Sundays and Mondays, as well as early-bird specials.","$$$","www.sanseihawaii.com",,
156,"SARENTO'S","Sarento's is an elegant throwback of an restaurant, set up high to provide 360 degrees of remarkable views including the ocean, with carpeted rooms and linen-covered tables. Diners reserve months in advance to get a view of Waikiki's Friday evening fireworks from the restaurant, but fiery sunset views provide a show year-round. Dress to impress and join other sophisticated diners - many from Australia and Europe, others from local halls of power - in enjoying generous plates of Italian food with accents from the Pacific. Highlights include fresh oysters with a lilikoi mignonette, caprese salad made with Kamuela tomatoes, and local fish. Osso buco, rack of lamb and filet mignon are offered for those who scoff at cholesterol warnings, but in truth, a goodly part of the menu is devoted to seafood, chicken and vegetarian options. A Greek-style chopped salad and vegetarian main course accented with Argentinian chimichurri also diversify the menu, served up with good cheer and good manners by a diligent staff.","$$$$","www.sarentoswaikiki.com",,
157,"SCRATCH",,,,,
158,"SEOUL GARDEN YAKINIKU","You'll find the standards of a Korean barbecue restaurant here, along with a varied and tasty selection of complimentary banchan (side dishes). All-you-can-eat sets available for lunch or dinner at this bright, clean yakiniku emporium have been bringing in a new set of enthusiasts, but Seoul Garden has been a longstanding favorite with local families who appreciate the cheery, no-nonsense service and dependably flavorful menu offerings, including sizzling platters of kalbi or bulgogi, fish or meat jun, and spicy pork.","$$","",,
159,"SHOR AMERICAN SEAFOOD GRILL","SHOR prides itself on serving only the best in seafood. All of the fish and shellfish on the menu are sustainable and approved by Monterey Bay Aquarium's Seafood Watch program. New to the menu (and highly recommended) are the Kona kampachi and bone-in rib-eye for two, weighing in at 1.5 pounds. Also popular are the Seafood Tower (lobster, oysters, abalone, mussels, shrimp, poke and king crab), house chowder and the mac and cheese, made with eight cheeses.","$$$$","www.shorgrill.com",,
160,"SIDE STREET INN/SIDE STREET INN ON DA STRIP","Whether at the newer Kapahulu restaurant with its brighter, more upscale ambience (complete with private party rooms) or the original hidden gem in the Ala Moana area that features more of a bar scene, both locations pack a punch with hefty family-style servings of ono food and a hungry crowd, many who flock over to enjoy good grinds while watching televised live sporting events. The menus are primarily the same and offer Side Street's signature must-haves: fried rice, pan-fried pork chops and mouth-watering boneless kalbi. Another must-have is the scrumptious chocolate peanut butter crunch with ice cream. Note: The Hopaka Street location offers a weekday lunch-counter takeout service from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., while the Kapahulu location offers lunch on weekends from 1 p.m.","$$","www.sidestreetinn.com",,
161,"SIGNATURE","Restaurateur Peter Kim set out to open a steakhouse based on his own likes. It was a daring move to fill 8,150 square feet with hungry diners, but he aimed for the sky and brought life back into the long-empty 36th floor of the Ala Moana Hotel, once home to Aaron's and Nicholas Nickolas. The result is a place to dress up for, where you can enjoy sweeping mountain-to-ocean views of Honolulu while noshing on tender, wet-aged, 24-ounce prime porterhouse and 22-ounce prime bone-in rib-eye, and some fabulous sides. Among them: sweet creamed corn and silky lobster mac and cheese. (Don't tell your doctor what you're eating.) Raw and cooked seafood options start with the Signature Seafood Tower stacked with Maine lobster tail and claws, jumbo shrimp, scallops and oysters on the half shell. A la carte selections range from oysters on the half shell to miso butterfish, and Alaskan king crab legs. A vast wine and cocktail menu awaits, as well as dessert libations such as The Shake, an adult milkshake of Absolut vanilla, Kahlua, Godiva chocolate liqueur and vanilla ice cream, topped with chopped macadamia nuts and cinnamon. Yum!","$$$$","www.signatureprimesteak.com",,
162,"SIKDORAK KOREAN RESTAURANT","This restaurant features all-you-can-eat yakiniku sets, offered at a bargain price with no-nonsense service. This can attract a crowd; be prepared to wait in line during dinner and late-night hours. (Tip: Don't over-order, as you may be hit with an extra fee if there's too much food left behind).","$$",,,
163,"SORABOL","This is a circus of of Korean food - a sprawling, something-for-everone location often full of families celebrating special occasions, couples and solo diners who just got hungry. Be sure to request a yakinuku table if you plan to grill your own. Choose less-expensive options such as a set with bulgogi and copious vegetables. (Don't over-order: Servings are big here. The menu's huge, from stone-pot bibimbap to sushi, so there's sure to be something that appeals.","$$-$$$","www.sorabolhawaii.com",,
164,"SOUL DE CUBA CAFE","Enter the doors of this Cuban restaurant and immerse yourself in the sights, sounds and flavors of Cuba. Popular dishes include the fricase de pollo (chicken with onions and Spanish olives), lechon asado (hand-pulled roast pork) and soul Cubano sandwich (ham, roast pork and salami). The new lumpia Cubano (think of it as a Filipino crispy spring roll with ham, Swiss cheese and roasted pork) is a winner; the eggplant milanesa is an excellent choice for vegetarians. Sunday brunch (11 a.m. to 5 p.m.) has been added, and a happy hour from 4 to 7 p.m. (except Sundays). The dream sadly ends when you exit the doors and find yourself back to reality in downtown Chinatown, but at least your tummy will be content.","$$","www.souldecuba.com",,
165,"SPALDING HOUSE CAFE","The Honolulu Museum of Art's Spalding House, high above Honolulu in Makiki Heights, offers the ambience of a peaceful hideaway, and the cafe is an oasis of simple good cheer. Chef Susan Lai Hipp whips up contemporary, Mediterranean-inspired fare, including panini and tofu watercress, curried quinoa or kale Caesar salads. If time permits, consider calling to reserve the Lauhala and Lunch picnic service on the museum lawn - a picnic lunch for two,$35, with sandwich or salad, cookies and beverages attractively packed in a basket.","$$","www.honolulumuseum.org",,
166,"SPICY AHI & BBQ","The specialty here, if it ain't obvious, is the glistening, made-to-perfection spicy ahi bowl, quality sashimi-grade ahi served over a mound of steamed white, brown or sushi rice (or go with fresh vegetables for a healthier alternative). The menu options go much further with two- and three-choice combination plates and teishoku meals. Choose from favorites such as miso salmon, tempura, mochiko chicken and rib-eye steak, or, back by popular demand, deep-fried oysters. (Note: Lunch orders must be placed by 1:40 p.m. Otherwise, those spicy ahi cravings must be restrained until the restaurant reopens for dinner at 5 p.m.)","$$","",,
167,"SQUARE BARRELS",,,,,
168,"STARBUCKS COFFEE CO.","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$","www.starbucks.com",,
169,"SUGOI BENTO & CATERING","Two words: garlic chicken. Crunchy, deep-fried, tender pieces of chicken slathered in a lip-smacking, mouth-watering sweet garlic sauce (also available in spicy garlic). And now there's a healthier take on this favorite - grilled garlic chicken - which comes smothered with the same garlicky goodness so as not to deny the health-conscious. (Thank you, Sugoi!) But wait! Have you tried the new Korean chicken? If you ever tire of Sugoi's signature garlic variety (never!) or are afraid of reeking like garlic at an important meeting (perhaps bring some extra pieces to score points?), opt for this Korean variation. ""You won't regret it,"" says Sugoi owner Zack Lee. Be sure to check online for hassle-free, time-saving options such as placing orders in advance and islandwide delivery service. Also recommended are the homemade 5-ounce hamburger steak patties, tonkatsu with a special homemade secret sauce and yakisoba noodles - we dare you to go spicy!","$","www.sugoihawaii.com",,
170,"SUMO DRIVE-IN",,,,,
171,"SUSHI GINZA ONODERA","It's always fun to watch the reaction of friends when telling them some of the best sushi on Oahu can be found on Kapahulu Avenue. Invariably, they'll scoff and mistakenly think I'm talking about a certain conveyor-style sushi joint or its nearby takeout competitor. Little do they know there's a world-class omakase destination less than a block away with sister restaurants in Tokyo, Paris and Hong Kong. Sushi Ginza Onodera's Hawaii outpost is a tiny spot with seven seats at the bar and a couple of private rooms. Various omakase options are available, including full meals that include soup and dessert. Ordering is simple; pick one of three featured menus - $160, $200 or $250 - and you're good to go. I love to stick with the sushi-only menu and nosh on fresh nigiri, almost all of it made with fish flown into Hawaii from Japan. The staff is also incredibly friendly and very accommodating when it comes to substitutions, making for one of the most enjoyable omakase experiences in town. Be sure to save room for dessert!","$$$$","www.sushi-onodera.com/ginza_en. ",,
172,"SUSHI ii","Dedicated lovers of sushi pack chef Garrett Wong's cozy, hidden-away izakaya inside Samsung Plaza most nights. Those who haven't yet explored his offerings need to make a reservation and find out what they've been missing. Wong seeks out a wide variety of imported and local fresh offerings, and the chirashi and omakase are justly touted. For maximum enjoyment, ask for descriptions of the less-familiar fish such as hamo and akamutsu; a desire for adventure will be rewarded. The menu is not limited to fish. Grilled and deep-fried specialties, from Lamb Lollipops to Golden Shrimp Purses (shrimp wrapped in phyllo), are among highlights. Daily specials range from smoked abalone with Brussels sprouts to prosciutto-wrapped ahi.","$$-$$$","",,
173,"SUSHI IZAKAYA GAKU","Gaku has become one of Honolulu's most desirable dining destinations, distinguished by chef and owner Manabu Kikuchi's easy but masterful blend of precise preparation and familiar presentation. Specialty dishes excel here, such as housemade silky tofu topped with fresh, briney ikura. Recommended:â€ˆhamachi tartare, made from luscious flesh scraped from the fish's bones, which diners wrap in nori by hand; sashimi and nigiri sushi. You can order salad or grilled beef tongue, but it's in the fresh seafood plates that Gaku brightly shines. The toughest thing is getting a seat: Reservations are available between 5 and 7 p.m.; after that, be prepared to wait.","$$$","",,
174,"SUSHI SASABUNE","Step into this sushi haven and simply trust the sign that says ""Trust Me!"" The amazing omakase experience is divine. The unique combinations created by chef/owner Seiji Kumagawa and his staff are magical and unforgettable. Choose from two omakase styles (East and West) and you'll be schooled on proper sushi etiquette that will be expected by the royal highness of sushi chefs. Selections may include live Kona abalone, toro, baked oysters, hamachi, king salmon, negihama, uni and lobster tail. Things you aren't accustomed to eating turn out to be the yummiest dishes ever. Call it quits when you can't take anymore but be sure to end the night with the special green tea flan or refreshing sake gelatin. There's an extensive selection of Japanese beer and sake, and even a few wines from California, Italy and France. Reservations are highly recommended. And let it be known: There is no children's menu, or any gluten-free or vegetarian options.","$$$$","",,
175,"SUSHI YUZU","Sushi YuZu's cuisine is as fresh and vibrant as the citrus fruit that inspired the varied menu, with something for everyone, whether it's sushi, grilled chicken with yuzu pepper sauce, or vegan fare. Isamu and Motoko ""Moco"" Kubota have a knack for making the healthful delicious: Some swaps you might not even notice include switching out regular wheat-filled soy sauce for gluten-free tamari, and fatty egg-based mayo for the plant-based Vegenaise mixed into seafood dynamite and sauces. The restaurant's signature dish is lotus root pizza comprising crisp slices of hasu, their pukas oozing with five kinds of melted cheese. It's one way to go gluten-free, and you won't even miss the traditional pizza crust. Other highlights: crisp-skinned organic red potatoes tossed with truffle oil and Hawaiian sea salt grilled squid with sea salt, pepper and the kick of shichimi pepper; mochi chicken karaage; wagyu drizzled with yuzu sauce; and Hawaii- and Japanese-style omakase platters.","$$","www.yuzuhawaii.com",,
176,"SWEET E'S CAFE","Start your morning on a sweet note by heading to this popular breakfast/brunch spot in Kilohana Square. The luscious blueberry-cream cheese-stuffed French toast is dreamy. Order it with a heaping serving of extra fruit (strawberries and bananas) and add a drizzling of syrup to satisfy that sweet tooth. For a meatier alternative, opt for the corned beef hash or kalua pork eggs Benedict, or the pesto club sandwich. Not so sweet, however, is the tight parking situation and waiting (at times, in the sun) to be seated.","$","",,
177,"SWEET HOME CAFE","This Taiwanese hot-pot hot spot is a soothing way to end any day of the week, as late as 11 p.m. It's casual, the food's delicious and the crew really makes you feel at home, even getting the whole place to erupt in song if it's your birthday. And that's the idea here: family time, eating as one. Build your own hot pot, ordering from 14 soup bases (spicy, curry, house special and healthy herb are tops) and a variety of meats. Then head to the fridge to choose from 41 kinds of add-ins - little color-coded plates of veggies, bean curds, mushrooms, dumplings and seafood. The Tran family's specialties are quail egg-stuffed fishcake, pork meatball, mochi pork dumpling, bamboo fishcake (shrimp, scallop or octopus), seafood wonton and local fave cheese wonton with rib-eye. Finally, check out the sauce bar and its 11 sauces, including soy, white sesame, garlic butter, ginger onion and the chef's special chili. Save room for dessert! A big bowl of Taiwanese shave ice is piled with homemade fruit gelatins, custard, coffee pudding and tapioca. It's free, and glorious - a big reason this place is so popular. Sweet dreams are made of this.","$-$$","",,
178,"TAI PAN DIM SUM","If you're on the hunt for delicious dim sum, head on over to the Chinatown Cultural Plaza but plan to go early before the busy lunch crowd hits this quaint dim sum joint. Among crowd favorites are the tasty shrimp dumplings, char siu bao, pork and shrimp siu mai and custard egg tart, but if you're feeling brave, go with the chicken feet with black bean.","$","",,
179,"TANGO CONTEMPORARY CAFE","The word is out and people are flocking to Tango's new weekend brunch (8 a.m. to 2 p.m.) to get their fix of Jansson's Temptation (Scandinavian potato, anchovy and ham casserole, with gravlax, eggs and beet salad), or the vegetarian frittata or Hamakua mushroom risotto (add a couple bucks for garlic shrimp or grilled chicken). Eggs Benedict variations - salmon, crab hash, Florentine with stuffed fresh spinach and traditional with Canadian bacon - are also spot-on, but the loco moco Benedict with juicy braised beef on fried rice is especially awesome. The food is so good, some return for dinner. Other recommended dishes include seared scallops and Swedish gravlax (cured salmon) with crispy skin for starters, and the oh-so-tender braised beef risotto.","$$-$$$","www.tangocafehawaii.com",,
180,"TANIOKA'S SEAFOOD and CATERING","Unlike many places, Tanioka's has got crowd-control under control with quick, efficient and courteous service, so don't let the sight of long lines snaking out the door chase you away. It's the norm. Just the word ""Tanioka's"" kindles glorious thoughts of the legendary fried chicken, ono ahi fish patties and selection of fresh poke (including the often-requested onion limu poke and spicy ahi on sushi rice). Catering is a specialty - funerals, baby luaus, graduation parties, weddings ... Whatever the occasion, Tanioka's is known for an ono food spread and first-class service.","$","www.taniokas.com",,
181,"TAORMINA SICILIAN CUISINE","Authentic Italian flavors unique to the tiny seaside village of Taormina in Sicily are delicately infused in the numerous pasta dishes served here. Most requested are the Bolognese Alla Classica (pasta in meat sauce with beef, pork, chicken and foie gras), Ricci Di Mare (sea urchin pasta), salmon, prime rib and grilled lamb chops. An unusual offering not seen in many restaurants is the Nero Frutti Di Mare comprising squid ink linguine sauteed with shrimp, clams, scallops, crabmeat and tomatoes.","$$$-$$$$","www.taorminarestaurant.com",,
182,"THAI LAO","I made a rule for my family - the Thai Lao rule - applicable whenever we eat at or order takeout from this classy little strip-mall restaurant. No pad thai, no green papaya salad, no Evil Jungle Prince. We are making our way through the menu, the idea being to try everything, eventually, and no stopping at the basic, ordinary stuff. We've gotten past green papaya to a salad made with smoky roasted eggplant with minced pork and shrimp, tomatoes and lots of lime; as well as a perky one with shrimp, basil, lemon grass and a spicy sauce. We're on our way down the noodle list to some new favorites - Pad Ki-Mao, for example (a spicy mix of chow fun, broccoli and lots of garlic). And while all the curries are warmly satisfying, the sweet/tangy pineapple curry was a real find. Flavors here are bright, fresh and sprightly. Try entrees like Pad Kra Pao, aka Holy Basil, a green bean stir-fry, or fish fillets studded with young ginger for the flavor blast. Bring a crowd so you can try a dozen different things. And if anyone insists on pad thai, that's OK. Like just about everything here, it will be great.","$$","www.thailaorestauranthi.com",,
183,"THAI VALLEY CUISINE","This quaint neighborhood restaurant on the outskirts of Hawaii Kai features authentic cuisine crafted by owner Carole Thirakoun, who makes her popular curries from fresh vegetables and spices, much of it from her own garden. Thirakoun is also open to requests and will tailor her dishes to dietary needs or special tastes, which endears her to her regular clientele. She'll even teach you to cook Thai food in classes that can be arranged for groups of 10. Favorites include a crispy rice salad, deep-fried fish, basil stir-fry and a red seafood curry with shrimp, calamari and fish.","$$","",,
184,"THELMA'S RESTAURANT","Lechon Kawali. For those unfamiliar with this uber-popular dish, also known as Thelma's Special, think crispy pork mixed with tomatoes and onions. Other favorites include eggplant omelet, fried pork, sari sari (pork and shrimp with eggplant, squash and ong choy) and pork adobo fried rice. Can't make it down in time for breakfast? No problem. Breakfast is served all day, with the exception of pancakes.","$","www.thelmasrestaurant.com",,
185,"TIKI'S","Tiki's is tacky and touristy, it's true. But it's also fun, has a great view and a solid menu overseen by Ronnie Nasuti, a graduate of the Roy Yamaguchi school of culinary precision. So yes, this is a place where you can get a tropical drink in a ceramic tiki mug that you can take home, and why not? Similarly, the menu includes items that appeal to a non-local's idea of what island food should be (coconut shrimp, mahimahi crusted with macadamia nuts), and those are done well. But what you really want are the more eclectic dishes Nasuti has added: Garlicky Shrimp with wasabi spaetzle, Island Ahi Tartare Tiki Stack, Kahaluu Smoke Meat (local pork glazed with guava jelly and poha berries) and the Soft Shell Crab Po' Boy Slider. Plus, take note: Nasuti says Tiki's serves 80 half-pound burgers every day. That's 280 pounds of local grass-fed beef every week. Good to eat and good for local ranchers, too.","$$$","www.tikisgrill.com",,
186,"TO CHAU","Cons: Long lines, service that can be abrupt, an ambience best described as ""well worn."" Pros: price, portions and PHO! Phenomenal pho! The faithful acclaim this tiny Chinatown establishment as the very best place on the island for the Vietnamese noodle soup, with top kudos for the beef. It is hearty and deeply satisfying, plus you can customize: Bowls come in three sizes, to fit any appetite, and the meat can be served on the side so you can slip it into the hot broth and let it cook to your liking. The cons, in fact, comprise a badge of courage for those who believe finding the best food is a pursuit that involves braving all odds. So get in line be patient. Also great here: The salty lemonade. Get it with soda water. Very refreshing.","$","",,
187,"TOKKURI TEI","This Japanese izakaya boasts a menu that overflows with pages and pages of simple noodle dishes, teishoku boxed sets, sashimi, shrimp and vegetable tempura, chicken karaage, sushi and more. Lots, lots more. The unique Nori-chos, deep-fried nori pieces topped with diced tomatoes, avocado, masago, green onions and melted cheese with a drizzling of teri sauce, is deliciously popular, as is the crispy salmon skin tofu salad, baked Alaskan salmon handroll and signature Spider Poke with soft-shell crab. It's best to order a variety of dishes and share it family-style for a more fulfilling experience. Or opt for the omakase style of dining at the sushi bar and have the chef surprise you, one amazing dish after another, until your tummy just can't take anymore. Always bustling with a late-night crowd, Tokkuri Tei provides an extensive sake and shochu selection (try the refreshing watermelon shochu), not to mention habushu (snake juice) awamori preserved with an actual snake from Okinawa, the subject of many ""I dare you's.""","$$","",,
188,"TONKATSU GINZA BAIRIN","The Japanese panko-breaded pork cutlet that is the specialty here bears little resemblance to its much heavier local counterpart. Only the choicest of loin cuts are selected for transformation into juicy pieces of tender, crispy tonkatsu that trick your brain into thinking they are much lighter than they really are. Start with specialties of Kurobuta pork loin katsu and pork tenderloin katsu, as well as a daily special cream croquette, before exploring menu classics such as the katsu sandwich and katsu-don - tonkatsu served over rice with onions and a soft-cooked egg.","$$$-$$$$.","",,
189,"TOWN","The beauty of Town is that while it changes, it always stays the same. That is because chefs Ed Kenney and Dave Caldiero have always based their menu on whatever products happen to be available on any given day. Expect to see local produce and local protein, reflecting Town's motto of ""Local first, organic whenever possible, with Aloha always."" And because dishes are consistently well executed, customers know they can trust these guys to deliver no matter what. For all that flexibility, expect to see paiai, or pounded, undiluted taro, on the menu, as Kenney and Caldiero are staunch advocates of the traditional Hawaiian staple. Refreshing salads make the most of Town's local, organic pledge; the venue sources most of its produce from MA'O Organic Farms. If you're lucky, there will be a charcuterie offering of some sort. It's a skill Kenney learned all by himself with the help of a book and YouTube. The entree list has something for everyone: Fish, poultry, pork, beef and lamb make regular rotations, dressed with the likes of paiai, polenta, gnocchi and risotto. Desserts are equally diverse. Milk-and-honey panna cotta, and gelato and sorbet selections are longstanding items.","$$","www.townkaimuki.com",,
190,"TUCKER & BEVVY","This is the year breakfast blew up in Honolulu, but even with dozens of new early-bird havens around town, Tucker & Bevvy stood out for its menu that transported us to the land of Oz. The breakfast nook is the first sit-down restaurant in the city for Tony and Cecily Ho Sargent (the latter originally from here), who ran a trio of breakfast and sandwich shops just outside Sydney, Australia. Sure, there are spots of ""normal"" on the menu, such as omelets and crisp applewood-smoked bacon, but those in search of the new or healthful can enjoy a kale and quinoa salad, or a plate of lentils and chicken sausages that also take the gluten-free into account. That's not to say you'll go hungry the rest of the day. You'll also find a stir-fry-style, chunky prime rib beef hash, as well as a burger ""with the lot"" of bacon, cheddar, grilled onions, beets and sweet chili mayonnaise. Also worth waking up for are ricotta pancakes topped with strawberry compote; mushroom rosti that is a fresh hash brown topped with balsamic mushrooms, spinach and two eggs; and a light-as-air Tim Tam waffle topped with vanilla ice cream and a couple of Australia's favorite chocolate malt biscuits. Fresh fruit smoothies give you a shot of vitamins to start your day.","$$","www.tuckerandbevvy.com",,
191,"UAHI ISLAND GRILL","You're in the heart of Kailua looking for a light salad or a hardy lunch. You can't go wrong at Uahi Island Grill. The menu is broken into three sections: Salads, sandwiches and meals. Among popular choices are garlic fried chicken, seared ahi salad with ponzu dressing, red curry grilled fish and kalua pork with kale. Each is filling and won't break the bank. Happy hour starts at 5 p.m. every day except Wednesdays.","$-$$","www.uahiislandgrill.com",,
192,"UNCLE BOBO'S","Blink and you could miss this little gem of a barbecue joint in Kaaawa, next to 7-Eleven across from Swanzy Beach Park. Go slow - after all, it's all about ""low and slow"" here. This is a place where meat is dry-rubbed, then smoked for hours using a blend of hickory and tropical woods. Regular customers love the tender brisket and ribs, the pork shoulder sandwiches, garlic fries and hamburgers, made with Kualoa Ranch beef, and homemade bread. After you've licked your fingers clean of all that homemade barbecue sauce, grab a drink to wash it down (choose from espresso and coffee drinks, floats, smoothies and more) or a shave ice, and head off to catch the sunset, as they're only open until 5 p.m. weekdays and 6 p.m. on weekends.","$-$$","www.unclebobos.com",,
193,"UNCLE BO'S RESTAURANT","Plain on the outside, but a whole new world inside, Uncle Bo's beams with lively music, TV screens and an impressive bar. Also beaming are the super cool menu pages that magically illuminate upon opening, much needed in the low-light ambience. But regulars at Uncle Bo's don't need menus and simply opt for their must-haves: Thai-style steamer clams in a mild chili, garlic oyster sauce; Uncle Bo's spicy dynamite shrimp with a Parmesan panko crust and Boca-Rota, garlic cheesy bread with prime rib slices and sauteed mushrooms. A newer dish called Seafood S.O.S. consists of a pan-fried mixture of crab, lobster, shrimp, clams and scallops in a creamy tomato sauce. The dessert menu is sparse, but so is tummy space, so there's not much room for dessert anyway. Uncle Bo's is in the process of tweaking its menu, so be sure to check it out soon.","$-$$","www.unclebosrestaurant.com",,
196,"WADA","Once the province of Japanese-speaking diners, the restaurant introduced a reduced-priced happy hour menu this summer, drawing locals who came in for a look and stayed for more. Hokkaido native Takanori Wada's ishiyaki, or stone-grill, beef tongue is a prime choice, as are such decadent sushi specialties as tuna akami made richer with a layer of foie gras, and Washugyu tataki and sea urchin layered on nori. Seafood dominance continues with delicate sake-steamed Manila clams, fried Pacific oysters in a shallow pool of dashi with baby spinach, and seafood dynamite with a mix of potatoes, kabocha and seafood that tastes fresh, not like yesterday's leftovers. Just when you think you've seen it all, Wada surprises with a dish of grilled eggplant baked in a mild tomato sauce with a rich and gooey layer of mozzarella that would be the envy of many an Italian restaurant.","$$-$$$","www.restaurantwada.com",,
197,"WAIAHOLE POI FACTORY","Fresh poi can be hard to find, but not so on the Windward side at this roadside eatery where kalo is milled and hand-pounded on-site every other day. The super ono lau lau and kalua pig combo plate, which comes with rice or poi, lomi salmon and haupia, is very popular, as is the hoio (fern shoots) salad and perfectly creamy squid luau, which sells out almost instantly.","$","www.waiaholepoifactory.com",,
198,"WOLFGANG'S STEAKHOUSE","It's mainly an a la carte menu, so bring your dinner date and enjoy the popular Steak for Two, a huge USDA prime chunk of meat delivered on a sizzling plate of buttery goodness, which goes well with the creamed spinach and steamed asparagus with hollandaise sauce as side dishes. Another great option is the Taste of New York special, just $39.95 for a juicy 12-ounce bone-in sirloin steak and a scrumptious sampling of Junior's world-famous cheesecake, but it's available only until 6:30 p.m. Not feeling up to steak? Try the refreshing Wolfgang's salad, lobster cocktail and the highly recommended lobster mac and cheese. Wolfgang's keeps it classy for the midday crowd by offering awesome lunch specials such as a grilled mahimahi sandwich, half-pound burger with french fries or onion rings, fish and chips and a tropical chopped salad. Or check out the happy hour specials at the counter from 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.","$$$-$$$$","www.wolfgangssteakhouse.net",,
199,"YAKI YAKI MIWA","""Yaki"" means grilled or cooked in Japanese, so it's safe to say the specialties here are teppanyaki and okonomiyaki (savory Japanese pancakes filled with pork, seafood, cheese or vegetables). Popular choices include mochi cheese and the newer ""modan""-yaki (modern) okonomiyaki selections, which are mixed with yakisoba. Other recommendations include the Washugyu steak, beef tongue and garlic fried rice. Be sure to save room for sweet potato ice cream and the scrumptious kinako pudding. It's not a spacious restaurant, so tables and counter seats tend to fill up for dinner rather quickly. The good news is a lunch menu is planned for later this year.","$$","",,
200,"YAKINIKU SEOUL","This is a spacious, bright and clean haven for yakiniku, rising above the fray for its cheerful service and varied menu. Servings are generous and the quality of the meat earns praise from many repeat customers.","$$-$$$",,,
201,"YAKINIKU YOSHI",,,,,
202,"YAKINIKU DON-DAY","This restaurant features outdoor seating, a rare commodity. After the sun goes down, lights wrapped around a towering shade tree over the patio give the space a nighttime glow, making it a good destination after a show or on a beautiful Honolulu evening. The meat offerings and generous banchan are on par with other yakiniku restaurants in this area. The restaurant offers Korean beer and a full bar. Open until 2 a.m. to satisfy late-night cravings.","$$-$$$",,,
203,"YANAGI SUSHI","Yanagi is best known as THE go-to spot for late-night specials (offered 10:30 p.m. to 2 a.m. nightly, except Sundays). You can get rolled sushi (California, salmon skin and spicy tuna), pupus such as broiled salmon, ahi poke, maguro with natto and fried baby tako, combination plates with katsu, teriyaki, udon and nigiri sushi, and a handful of drink specials at easy-on-the-wallet prices. Regular menu items are aplenty with sushi rolls galore; fresh sashimi; complete two- and three-choice dinner specials (can't go wrong with the miso butterfish with shrimp and vegetable tempura, or the broiled salmon with mini tempura udon). Each dinner special includes salad, miso soup and an ice cream dessert. Other choices are nabemono (tabletop cooking), donburi, and udon and soba dishes. Higher-priced dinner offerings include the rib-eye, live Maine lobster, and even broiled eel and sea urchin. But no matter what time of day, parking will be tight so it's best to opt for street parking or valet service.","$-$$","www.yanagisushi-hawaii.com",,
204,"YOUR KITCHEN",,,,,
205,"ZIPPY'S RESTAURANTS","As an 'Ilima award winner for 10 years or more, this restaurant Is in the Star Circle for perpetual awards.","$","www.zippys.com",,
206,"ZPIZZA","Founded in California, zpizza prides itself on using non-GMO wheat flour, organic tomato sauce, additive-free sausages and fresh produce. The hormone-free chicken zWings in a tangy Buffalo or sweet barbecue sauce (and served with a side of ranch) solidified a spot on the menu after its introduction a year ago. They pair well with the refreshing pear and Gorgonzola salad with candied walnuts and a balsamic vinaigrette dressing. It's a top-seller. As for pizzas, many opt for the Casablanca, Tuscan Mushroom or Provence, all smothered in a roasted garlic sauce. Also on the menu are a few pasta dishes, flatbreads, calzones, sandwiches and even take-and-bake pizzas. For those looking for gluten-free, vegetarian or vegan options, check out the website to whittle down your options, or better yet, you can place your order online to avoid the bustling crowd.","$$","www.zpizza.com",,
